And these few precepts in thy memory
Or like a creature native and indued
 They bore him barefac'd on the bier
As it is common for the younger sort
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And with a larger tether may he walk
A second time I kill my husband dead
As if increase of appetite had grown
As if he had been loosed out of hell
As if it some impartment did desire
How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable
And set a double varnish on the fame
   i
Against the which a moiety competent
Do not for ever with thy vailed lids
It lifted up it head and did address
The chariest maid is prodigal enough
Yet the unshaped use of it doth move
But to recover of us, by strong hand
I'll call upon you ere you go to bed
In obstinate condolement is a course
Why to a public count I might not go
You go not till I set you up a glass
Mar. Look with what courteous action
My father, in his habit as he liv'd!
Pol. With what, i' th' name of God I
That for a fantasy and trick of fame
Oph. O heavenly powers, restore him!
Upon a fearful summons. I have heard
As low as to the fiends!
Ber. Long live the King!
O most pernicious woman!
A face without a heart,'
You promis'd me to wed.'
 He is gone, he is gone,
Hor. Not from his mouth,
Queen. For love of God, forbear him!
 And hath shipped me intil the land,
As level as the cannon to his blank,
 In youth when I did love, did love,
By desperate appliance are reliev'd,
By letters congruing to that effect,
And fall a-cursing like a very drab,
He likewise gives a frock or livery,
In dreadful secrecy impart they did,
I saw him yesterday, or t'other day,
Let Hercules himself do what he may,
Led by a delicate and tender prince,
Makes mouths at the invisible event,
No, in despite of sense and secrecy,
Nor customary suits of solemn black,
That, if again this apparition come,
 Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
 Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
As hardy as the Nemean lion's nerve.
Attendants with foils and gauntlets.
Hor. Nay, good my lord -
By indirections find directions out.
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Ham. A dream itself is but a shadow.
I am afeard You make a wanton of me.
Occasion smiles upon a second leave.
Assume a virtue, if you have it not.
On wholesome life usurp immediately.
Queen. Did you assay him
So full of artless jealousy is guilt
That makes calamity of so long life.
Both [Mar. and Ber.] We do, my lord.
A double blessing is a double grace;
Of violent birth, but poor validity;
But what is your affair in Elsinore?
Ham. Upon the talk of the poisoning?
King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
Queen. Came this from Hamlet to her?
Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern]
Queen. Nay, but Ophelia-
 [Clown digs and] sings.
As day does to your eye.
As therein are set down.
The very faculties of eyes and ears.
And reason panders will.
Clown. For none neither.
 With true-love showers.
Colours, and Attendants.
Exeunt Ghost and Hamlet.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear by his sword.
Exeunt [all but Hamlet].
Go on. I'll follow thee.
May sweep to my revenge.
The unseen good old man.
Into a tow'ring passion.
Other. Why, he had none.
Queen. I shall obey you;
 [Retires with Horatio.]
Oph. O, help him, you sweet heavens!
Who in her duty and obedience, mark,
Priest. No more be done.
me, whether you were sent for or no.
'Tis not so; it begins with Pyrrhus:
you cannot play upon me.
Ham. Denmark's a prison.
Pol. Give o'er the play.
Pol. I will say so.Exit.
Ham. 'The mobled queen'?
Ham. What did you enact?
Ham. How does the Queen?
Ham. The King my father?
Ham. But where was this?
I do not set my life at a pin's fee;
Ham. What, frighted with false fire?
Ham. How if I answer no?
Ros. Both your Majesties
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern
Hor. Very well, my lord.
Ham. Very well, my lord.
To be contracted in one brow of woe,
Upon my secure hour thy uncle stole,
Would have reverted to my bow again,
Wherein we saw thee quietly inurn'd,
A brother's murther! Pray can I not,
Which happily foreknowing may avoid,
My father- methinks I see my father.
Unite comutual in most sacred bands.
Mess. Letters, my lord, from Hamlet:
With turbulent and dangerous lunacy?
King. Our son shall win.
Guil. My lord, I cannot.
Queen. Drown'd, drown'd.
Rey. Very good, my lord.
Rey. As gaming, my lord.
That looks so many fadoms to the sea
Upon the witness of these gentlemen,
So bloodily hast struck.
To hear him so inclin'd.
What I have said to you.
When thou liest howling.
Hor. What news, my lord?
Will you be rul'd by me?
What, is Horatio there ?
King. Where is Polonius?
Laer. Know you the hand?
Unpeg the basket on the house's top,
[Sings] By Gis and by Saint Charity,
seeks her own salvation?
King. Why, now You speak
Laer. Drown'd! O, where?
Queen. How now, Ophelia?
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
[Exeunt all but Hamlet.]
Thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!
And for your rapier most especially,
Be thy intents wicked or charitable,
So horridly to shake our disposition
Without the sensible and true avouch
ladies. Good night, good night. Exit
'So would I 'a' done, by yonder sun,
And gather by him, as he is behav'd,
I bought an unction of a mountebank,
We do it wrong, being so majestical,
So, by my former lecture and advice,
Capt. Yes, it is already garrison'd.
Until my eyelids will no longer wag.
Clown. Ay, tell me that, and unyoke.
And you the judges, bear a wary eye.
It is most retrograde to our desire;
Ham. Now, mother, what's the matter?
How now, Ophelia? What's the matter?
King. Now, Hamlet, where's Polonius?
But to my mind, though I am native here
Good gentlemen, give him a further edge
Nor will it yield to Norway or the Pole
And prologue to the omen coming on,
 Enter Hamlet and Horatio afar off.
And in the morn and liquid dew of youth
And in this brainish apprehension kills
A combination and a form indeed
And gave you such a masterly report
And with a sudden vigour it doth posset
But it reserv'd some quantity of choice
For nature crescent does not grow alone
For in the fatness of these pursy times
Giving to you no further personal power
In the corrupted currents of this world
Observe my uncle. If his occulted guilt
On such regards of safety and allowance
The very soul, and sweet religion makes
     j
And what so poor a man as Hamlet is
Did Hamlet so envenom with his envy
He falls to such perusal of my face
If you desire to know the certainty
Antiquity forgot, custom not known,
Let me be no assistant for a state,
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
Purpose is but the slave to memory,
Does by their own insinuation grow.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Enter Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be;
O good Horatio, what a wounded name
So oft it chances in particular men
The glowworm shows the matin to be near
There's such divinity doth hedge a king
Tell him that by his license Fortinbras
To show us so much gentry and good will
The violence of either grief or joy
Take these again; for to the noble mind
Thy natural magic and dire property
The inward service of the mind and soul
For it is as the air, invulnerable,
Or you deny me right. Go but apart,
Passing through nature to eternity.
This present object made probation.
1. Play. What speech, my good lord?
To the ambassadors of England gives
Behind the arras I'll convey myself
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed
It will be laid to us, whose providence
Break we our watch up; and by my advice
Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell
To try conclusions, in the basket creep
Than I to Hercules. Within a month,
To his confine; and of the truth herein
Hor. Heaven secure him!
How strange or odd soe'er I bear myself
For husband shalt thou-
 And we cast away moan.
And I am sick at heart.
No.
But never doubt I love.
But truly I do fear it.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Elsinore. A churchyard.
His madness is poor Hamlet's enemy.
Ham. Do not believe it.
Osr. Rapier and dagger.
Stick fiery off indeed.
Hor. I warr'nt it will.
Look you, I'll go pray.
Of his affection to me.
Queen. Let her come in.
That thou so many princes at a shot
For goodness, growing to a plurisy,
The ocean, overpeering of his list,
Hor. My lord, the King your father.
King. Part them! They are incens'd.
And there did seem in him a kind of joy
King. Sweet Gertrude, leave us too;
Ham. Lady, shall I lie in your lap?
Among a mineral of metals base,
Queen. Alas, how is't with you,
As infinite as man may undergo-
And not have strew'd thy grave.
 Enter young Osric, a courtier.
he.
Ham. Speak. I am bound to hear.
That I must call't in question.
Pol. That's very true, my lord.
-----Claudius, King of Denmark.
 Larded all with sweet flowers;
'Doubt thou the stars are fire;
And never did the Cyclops' hammers fall
King. Laertes, you shall hear them.
Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
for your succession in Denmark?
Ros. My lord, you once did love me.
Ham. Do the boys carry it away?
And wants not buzzers to infect his ear
I will bestow him, and will answer well
That we with wisest sorrow think on him
The lives of many. The cesse of majesty
So to seduce!- won to his shameful lust
I had forgot! 'Tis so concluded on.
Must give us pause. There's the respect
With sore distraction. What I have done
tongue? You will do't, sir, really.
Pol. What treasure had he, my lord?
Ros. Will't please you go, my lord?
All. No, let's come in!
Both. We will haste us.
Laer. Come, one for me.
Laer. Think it no more.
humanity so abominably.
All. Lights, lights, lights!
King. O Gertrude, come away!
Pleasant and helpful to him!
Queen. O, confound the rest!
Pol. [behind] O, I am slain!
 Old grandsire Priam seeks.'
And I a maid at your window,
Oph. My lord, I do not know,
1. Play. 'Anon he finds him,
And dupp'd the chamber door,
 Enter four or five Players.
 (Hey non nony, nony, hey nony)
Queen. Sleep rock thy brain,
But keep a farm and carters.
And vanish'd from our sight.
Drabbing. You may go so far.
Enter Polonius and Reynaldo.
Exeunt
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Hor. Good my lord, be quiet.
Ham. I beseech you remember.
Hor. Let him bless thee too.
Hor. As thou art to thyself.
Ham. No, you will reveal it.
Hor. Friends to this ground.
 And will he not come again?
 And will he not come again?
Ham. What, the fair Ophelia?
Ham. How long is that since?
Ham. Ha, ha! Are you honest?
Hold you the watch to-night?
Ham. A murtherer and a villain!
Fare you well, my dove!
Ham. And smelt so? Pah!
I ha't!
Ham. O, I die, Horatio!
Follow my mother. King dies.
Oph. You are merry, my lord.
Pol. Fare you well, my lord.
Here's yet some liquor left.
Queen. it may be, very like.
Rey. Ay, very well, my lord.
Come hither, gentlemen,
Who is't that can inform me?
Guil. In what, my dear lord?
Ros. My most dear lord!
Ber. Last night of all,
Rey. But, my good lord-
Enter King and Laertes.
Ham. It waves me still.
Hor. It might, my lord.
Most free in his reply.
Here stooping to your clemency,
Directly seasons him his enemy.
Come.
Pol. Very like a whale.
Pol. That hath made him mad.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Exit.
Guil. There are the players.
King. O, he is mad, Laertes.
Laer. Upon my life, Lamound.
At his head a grass-green turf,
Perchance 'twill walk again.
Hor. Propose the oath, my lord.
Ham. In my mind's eye, Horatio.
Mar. You shall not go, my lord.
it is but a shadow's shadow.
Queen. Calmly, good Laertes.
Requite him for your father.
Queen. This is mere madness;
Ros. We shall, my lord.
Ros. No indeed are they not.
Ham. Who commands them, sir?
In noise so rude against me?
Rome-
Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet?
Queen. O my son, what theme?
Fort. Let four captains
Hor. (within) My lord, my lord!
Queen. O Hamlet, speak no more!
Ham. What, ho, Horatio!
Guil. My honour'd lord!
Guil. But we both obey,
Hor. Well, sit we down,
King. I do not think't.
Laer. You mock me, sir.
Laer. I pray you give me leave.
O, ho!
Queen. Ay me, what act,
Ham. 'Tis very strange.
It could not move thus.
Swear.
Clown. For no man, sir.
Queen. Did he receive you well?
O, say!
Hecuba.
I never gave you aught.
Guildenstern, courtier.
Therefore let's follow.
To what I shall unfold.
Treachery! Seek it out.
To give it due content.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
Ghost. [beneath] Swear.
We cannot get from him.
shame and the odd hits.
Ham. Well, God-a-mercy.
tragedians of the city.
it means, say you this:
King. It likes us well;
Ghost. I find thee apt;
The hart ungalled play;
According to the phrase or the addition
Hor. O, where, my lord?
Away! for everything is seal'd and done
And my imaginations are as foul
Guil. A thing, my lord?
Anon, as patient as the female dove
As harbingers preceding still the fates
By laboursome petition, and at last
Exposing what is mortal and unsure
Hor. It would have much amaz'd you.
Ham. What man dost thou dig it for?
Ham. I mean, my head upon your lap?
Ham. How purpos'd, sir, I pray you?
Hor. Not I, my lord, by heaven!
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A hall in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
Elsinore. A room in the Castle.
 A table and flagons of wine on it.
'I saw him enter such a house of sale,'
And let us once again assail your ears,
(My fears forgetting manners) to unseal
Be soft as sinews of the new-born babe!
And hitherto doth love on fortune tend,
And live the purer with the other half,
And stand a comma 'tween their amities,
As he is very potent with such spirits,
Abuses me to damn me. I'll have grounds
(Marcellus and Bernardo) on their watch
King. 'Tis Hamlet's character. 'Naked!'
A little ere the mightiest Julius fell,
But this eternal blazon must not be
For we will fetters put upon this fear,
Is the main motive of our preparations,
To lay our service freely at your feet,
I once did hold it, as our statists do,
And he, repulsed, a short tale to make,
Cut off even in the blossoms of my sin,
For every man hath business and desire,
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face,
How much I had to do to calm his rage I
If Hamlet give the first or second hit,
It hath the primal eldest curse upon't,
It is a damned ghost that we have seen,
Make mad the guilty and appal the free,
To take him in the purging of his soul,
Mark the encounter. If he love her not,
Revisits thus the glimpses of the moon,
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
So much as from occasion you may glean,
Shark'd up a list of lawless resolutes,
He may not, as unvalued persons do,
To be a preparation 'gainst the Polack,
No traveller returns- puzzles the will,
The bark is ready and the wind at help,
Than may be given you. In few, Ophelia,
The flash and outbreak of a fiery mind,
But woe is me! you are so sick of late,
If I had play'd the desk or table book,
To tell the secrets of my prison house,
Do I impart toward you. For your intent
And whatsoever else shall hap to-night,
Hath op'd his ponderous and marble jaws
From me, whose love was of that dignity
Have we, as 'twere with a defeated joy,
So, as a painted tyrant, Pyrrhus stood,
He's lov'd of the distracted multitude,
No, not to stay the finding of the axe,
That aptly is put on. Refrain to-night,
Thy knotted and combined locks to part,
And a most instant tetter bark'd about,
And not where I had aim'd them.
Ham. I am glad to see you well.
Ham. Madam, how like you this play?
Hor. It beckons you to go away with it,
Ham. Nor the soles of her shoe?
Hor. Season your admiration for a while
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Ham. A king of shreds and patches!-
Mar. Horatio says 'tis but our fantasy,
Will bring him to his wonted way again,
Within the book and volume of my brain,
With an auspicious, and a dropping eye,
Ham. Then saw you not his face?
With an entreaty, herein further shown,
O Hamlet, what a falling-off was there,
Of entrance to a quarrel; but being in,
Yet now I must confess, that duty done,
Since nature cannot choose his origin,-
And I believe it is a fetch of warrant.
Admit no messengers, receive no tokens.
And let us hear Bernardo speak of this.
And lay your hands again upon my sword.
And he to England shall along with you.
And as my love is siz'd, my fear is so.
But farewell it, for I will use no art.
But look, amazement on thy mother sits.
I am more an antique Roman than a Dane.
That hath in it no profit but the name.
Rey. My lord, that would dishonour him.
Be wary then; best safety lies in fear.
Give it an understanding but no tongue.
Enter Horatio, Marcellus, and Bernardo.
For he himself is subject to his birth.
And draw you into madness? Think of it.
Nor any unproportion'd thought his act.
The soul of Nero enter this firm bosom.
top of my bent.- I will come by-and-by.
Hor. Here, sweet lord, at your service.
Hor. You will lose this wager, my lord.
Elsinore. A platform before the Castle.
I will be brief. Your noble son is mad.
Like a good child and a true gentleman.
Together with remembrance of ourselves.
Laer. A touch, a touch; I do confess't.
So you will not o'errule me to a peace.
Though inclination be as sharp as will.
Upon his will I seal'd my hard consent.
As he would draw it. Long stay'd he so.
Unsifted in such perilous circumstance.
of the fish that hath fed of that worm.
He closes with you in this consequence:
The better to beguile. This is for all:
And marshal me to knavery. Let it work;
An understanding simple and unschool'd;
And foreign mart for implements of war;
Both to my God and to my gracious king;
 Will You walk out of the air, my lord?
Laer. Why ask you this?
I did repel his letters and denied
My tables! Meet it is I set it down
It is a poison temper'd by himself.
King. She sounds to see them bleed.
The perfume and suppliance of a minute;
The need we have to use you did provoke
Or is it some abuse, and no such thing?
My liege, and madam, to expostulate
Mar. 'Tis gone and will not answer.
Ham. What's his weapon?
Oph. Do you doubt that?
King. At supper? Where?
Other. But is this law?
Queen. What shall I do?
Osr. How is't, Laertes?
Rosencrantz! Good lads, how do ye both?
To you in satisfaction; but if not,
To show my duty in your coronation,
 Queen, Laertes, with Lords attendant.]
Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appear.
To keep those many many bodies safe
Upon our first, he sent out to suppress
King. [aside] O, 'tis too true!
Laer. I am satisfied in nature,
Than fly to others that we know not of?
The insolence of office, and the spurns
King, father, royal Dane. O, answer me?
King. Give me some light! Away!
Laer. My lord, I will be rul'd;
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd evil
They had begun the play. I sat me down;
Why should we in our peevish opposition
Ham. I am tame, sir; pronounce.
Ham. Indeed, upon my sword, indeed.
Ros. Take you me for a sponge, my lord?
Pol. And let him ply his music.
Which now goes too free-footed.
Would from a paddock, from a bat, a gib
We may of their encounter frankly judge
Yet what can it when one cannot repent?
[Sings] O, a pit of clay for to be made
Unhous'led, disappointed, unanel'd,
Ros. I understand you not, my lord.
what is't to leave betimes? Let be.
Osr. Shall I redeliver you e'en so?
Will sate itself in a celestial bed
THE END
 Spreads his arms.
 carrying torches.
 This realm dismantled was
 Exit Ghost.
And I do doubt the hatch and the disclose
 discretion.
 Exeunt Gentlemen.
 Exit Ghost.
 That lend a tyrannous and a damned light
And we did think it writ down in our duty
 Exit Ghost.
And after we will both our judgments join
And oft 'tis seen the wicked prize itself
And he not from his reason fall'n thereon
And crook the pregnant hinges of the knee
And let them know both what we mean to do
Appears before them and with solemn march
 From another one?
'That can denote me truly. These indeed seem,
And at the sound it shrunk in haste away
And thy commandment all alone shall live
And enterprises of great pith and moment
And you must needs have heard, how I am punish'd
And they can well on horseback; but this gallant
 Enter Queen.
 Enter Ghost.
'Tis strange.
(Things standing thus unknown) shall live behind me!
 Black as his purpose, did the night resemble
And will not let belief take hold of him
And now no soil nor cautel doth besmirch
And why such daily cast of brazen cannon
Ah, mine own lord, what have I seen to-night!
And You must put me in your heart for friend,
And therefore I forbid my tears; but yet
And makes each petty artire in this body
And he beseech'd me to entreat your Majesties
And when he's not himself does wrong Laertes,
'This must be so.' We pray you throw to earth
At least, the whisper goes so. Our last king,
And each particular hair to stand an end
A Priest.
Attends the boist'rous ruin. Never alone
Honour'd, belov'd, and haply one as kind
Ham. I'll be your foil, Laertes. In mine ignorance
And you are stay'd for. There- my blessing with thee!
As I do thee. Something too much of this I
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
Ham. What imports the nomination of this gentleman
 Exeunt.
 Exeunt.
 grave.]
And that our drift look through our bad performance.
And duller shouldst thou be than the fat weed
But with the whiff and wind of his fell sword
How smart a lash that speech doth give my conscience!
epitaph is 'For O, for O, the hobby-horse is forgot!'
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell,
Or then, or then, with such or such; and, as you say,
We should do when we would; for this 'would' changes,
And where 'tis so, th' offender's scourge is weigh'd,
King. Come, Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me.
But yet to me they are strong. The Queen his mother
Ham. Give me your pardon, sir. I have done you wrong;
And sets a blister there; makes marriage vows
That would not let me sleep. Methought I lay
When our deep plots do pall; and that should learn us
Had I but time (as this fell sergeant, Death,
 To their lord's murther. Roasted in wrath and fire,
Ghost. So art thou to revenge, when thou shalt hear.
Osr. Your lordship is right welcome back to Denmark.
Which, as her winks and nods and gestures yield them,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will!
And with his head over his shoulder turn'd
And my young mistress thus I did bespeak:
Where is your son?
But come!
O, speak!
Ham. Why,
But do not go with it!
Ham. Why,
'Tis now the very witching time of night,
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And let him, for a pair of reechy kisses,
And to the last bended their light on me.
Mark you,
Ber. Say-
Elsinore.
Farewell.
Ham. One.
Laer. No.
Leave us.
Scene II.
Scene II.
Scene VI.
Scene II.
Scene IV.
Scene II.
Scene IV.
Scene II.
Scene IV.
And curd, like eager droppings into milk,
And who in want a hollow friend doth try,
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
his love.
the King.
Gonzago'?
Ham. Why?
My uncle?
Osr. Sir?
more, ha?
And, like a man to double business bound,
waterfly?
Awake the god of day; and at his warning,
Ham. Come on, sir.
Ham. Nay, but swear't.
King. But how hath she
That they may seem the taints of liberty,
Ham. That's two of his weapons- but well.
have sent for you.
My tongue and soul in this be hypocrites-
But since, so jump upon this bloody question,
A chalice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
Now see that noble and most sovereign reason,
Their virtues else- be they as pure as grace,
Did coldly furnish forth the marriage tables.
Bow, stubborn knees; and heart with strings of steel,
Hath in the skirts of Norway, here and there,
Would gambol from. Mother, for love of grace,
And thou must cure me. Till I know 'tis done,
Good Gertrude, set some watch over your son.-
Ham. The air bites shrewdly; it is very cold.
I can no more. The King, the King's to blame.
Walks o'er the dew of yon high eastward hill.
or, if 'a do not, 'tis no great matter there.
All. Treason! treason!
Each opposite that blanks the face of joy
Hor. Let them come in.
In honourable fashion.
I pray you go with me.
All saws of books, all forms, all pressures past
Grating so harshly all his days of quiet
Ham. Horatio, thou art e'en as just a man
The fair Ophelia!- Nymph, in thy orisons
The time is out of joint. O cursed spite
And, as you said, and wisely was it said,
Hath turn'd itself on me. Lo, here I lie,
Ham. O, throw away the worser part of it,
I do not know from what part of the world
That patient merit of th' unworthy takes,
Discomfort you, my lord, it nothing must;
If aught of woe or wonder, cease your search.
Ham. The King doth wake to-night and takes his rouse,
And blow them at the moon. O, 'tis most sweet
Pol. I would fain prove so. But what might you think,
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Much heat and him. I'll silence me even here.
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to bear with,
Pol. Ay, or drinking, fencing, swearing, quarrelling,
Shows itself pure. He weeps for what is done.
But you must know, your father lost a father;
Together with that fair and warlike form
Sith I have cause, and will, and strength, and means
The kettledrum and trumpet thus bray out
Hor. These are but wild and whirling words, my lord.
That to the use of actions fair and good
The imminent death of twenty thousand men
The source of this our watch, and the chief head
With martial stalk hath he gone by our watch.
That he, as 'twere by accident, may here
My father's spirit- in arms? All is not well.
Ros. My lord, there was no such stuff in my thoughts.
King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes.
'Now the King drinks to Hamlet.' Come, begin.
Ros. What have you done, my lord, with the dead body?
Should have a back or second, that might hold
Laer. Have at you now!
Since my dear soul was mistress of her choice
To show his grief. Let her be round with him;
further trade with us?
Since frost itself as actively doth burn,
So think thou wilt no second husband wed;
There lives within the very flame of love
We'll teach you to drink deep ere you depart.
More relative than this. The play's the thing
Under the which he shall not choose but fall;
That roars so loud and thunders in the index?
As it hath us'd to do- that I have found
Tweaks me by th' nose? gives me the lie i' th' throat
Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Will nothing stick Our person to arraign
King. Full thirty times hath Phoebus' cart gone round
Would I had met my dearest foe in heaven
1. Play. 'But who, O who, had seen the mobled queen-'
Whereof he is the head. Then if he says he loves you,
(For which, they say, you spirits oft walk in death),
King. 'Tis deeply sworn. Sweet, leave me here awhile.
With bisson rheum; a clout upon that head
King. Where are my Switzers? Let them guard the door.
Alas, how shall this bloody deed be answer'd?
I stand aloof, and will no reconcilement
To my revenge. But in my terms of honour
Come. (They play.) Another hit. What say you?
Taken to wife; nor have we herein barr'd
You cannot call it love; for at your age
King. O heavy deed!
 Enter a Messenger.
All my smooth body.
Ham. In happy time.
Ghost. Pity me not, but lend thy serious hearing
Oph. Pray you mark.
A man that Fortune's buffets and rewards
Ham. Why, man, they did make love to this employment!
Ham. I think it be thine indeed, for thou liest in't.
Hor. Well, my lord.
Rey. Well, my lord.
But what, in faith, make you from Wittenberg?
Or lose your heart, or your chaste treasure open
Pays homage to us,- thou mayst not coldly set
but now the time gives it proof. I did love you once.
Pol. He will come straight. Look you lay home to him.
How now? What news?
And breath of life, I have no life to breathe
Let us impart what we have seen to-night
King. [aside] It is the poison'd cup; it is too late.
Some say that ever, 'gainst that season comes
Taint not thy mind, nor let thy soul contrive
(As I perceiv'd it, I must tell you that,
 Enter Hamlet.
 Exit Horatio.
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeed
You heavenly guards! What would your gracious figure?
Ham. How long will a man lie i' th' earth ere he rot?
 Enter Hamlet.
Ham. Thrift, thrift, Horatio! The funeral bak'd meats
To fust in us unus'd. Now, whether it be
Come, Gertrude, we'll call up our wisest friends
Pol. Marry, well said, very well said. Look you, sir,
And you, my sinews, grow not instant old,
Was sick almost to doomsday with eclipse.
Wherein the spirit held his wont to walk.
Osr. The carriages, sir, are the hangers.
As false as dicers' oaths. O, such a deed
Good night- but go not to my uncle's bed.
Of this his nephew's purpose, to suppress
Where now it burns, Marcellus and myself,
Your sudden coming o'er to play with you.
There is a play to-night before the King.
Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the King. Exit.
Pol. That's good! 'Mobled queen' is good.
Since nature makes them partial, should o'erhear
 are shot off.
 But age with his stealing steps
 Of Jove himself; and now reigns here
 Hath clawed me in his clutch,
 Pours the poison in his ears.
 Which bewept to the grave did not go
(Unless things mortal move them not at all)
And to those thorns that in her bosom lodge
 His beard was as white as snow,
And keep you in the rear of your affection,
And makes us rather bear those ills we have
As it behooves my daughter and your honour.
As kill a king, and marry with his brother.
A little month, or ere those shoes were old
And at our more consider'd time we'll read,
As of a father; for let the world take note
And drive his purpose on to these delights.
And melt in her own fire. Proclaim no shame
 A pickaxe and a spade, a spade,
 Enter a Messenger with letters.
 Enter Ophelia.
 Exeunt Voltemand and Cornelius.
And do't the speedier that you may direct me
As peace should still her wheaten garland wear
 Enter Ophelia distracted.
 He never will come again.
 O, a Pit of clay for to be made
 For such a guest is meet.
 Flourish for the Players.
And never come mischance between us twain!
As by your safety, wisdom, all things else,
 When he lay couched in the ominous horse,
'Tis told me he hath very oft of late
'Tis dangerous when the baser nature comes
As to expend your time with us awhile
As he in his particular act and place
And for his death no wind
And tediousness the limbs and outward flourishes,
(As I perchance hereafter shall think meet
A station like the herald Mercury
And sure I am two men there are not living
And they in France of the best rank and station
And in the porches of my ears did pour
And we shall jointly labour with your soul
And thirty dozed moons with borrowed sheen
As are companions noted and most known
And hath abatements and delays as many
And I, of ladies most deject and wretched,
And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.
And do not spread the compost on the weeds
As it did seem to shatter all his bulk
And with no less nobility of love
And bear it to the chapel.
And makes as healthful music. It is not madness
And could of men distinguish, her election
And gem of all the nation.
And from her fair and unpolluted flesh
And hears it roar beneath.
And with a look so piteous in purport
And thus the native hue of resolution
And that shall lend a kind of easiness
And leads the will to desperate undertakings
As from the body of contraction plucks
A dull and muddy-mettled rascal, peak
And bow them to your gracious leave and pardon.
And I with them the third night kept the watch;
As there are tongues, are hands, are accidents;
And in the cup an union shall he throw
A slave that is not twentieth part the tithe
And to such wondrous doing brought his horse
And you yourself shall keep the key of it.
And bring these gentlemen where Hamlet is.
And there I see such black and grained spots
As will not leave their tinct.
And let all sleep, while to my shame I see
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd
And thou shalt live in this fair world behind,
As to give words or talk with the Lord Hamlet.
And cleave the general ear with horrid speech;
As checking at his voyage, and that he means
ACT I. Scene I.
ACT V. Scene I.
And with th' encorporal air do hold discourse?
A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
As oft as any passion under heaven
And I do think- or else this brain of mine
'Tis not alone my inky cloak, good mother,
And thus a while the fit will work on him.
As my great power thereof may give thee sense,
And do such bitter business as the day
And therefore must his choice be circumscrib'd
Ros. I think their inhibition comes by the means of the late
(O God! a beast that wants discourse of reason
(Sings) White his shroud as the mountain snow-
And our affairs from England come too late.
A kind of wick or snuff that will abate it;
 As if I had never been such.
And what make you from Wittenberg, Horatio?
 Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Guil. Good my lord, put your discourse into some frame, and start
 Ghost cries under the stage.
And break your own neck down.
As fits a king's remembrance.
 Methought it was very sweet;
A savageness in unreclaimed blood,
 Enter the Players with recorders.
A room in the Castle.
At his heels a stone.
And call it accident.
All may be well.He kneels.
And all we mourn for.
Alexander was buried, Alexander returneth into dust; the dust is
ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last by the
And I the matter will reword; which madness
And let me speak to the yet unknowing world
And that your Grace hath screen'd and stood between
And there assume some other, horrible form
Collected from all simples that have virtue
'O dear Ophelia, I am ill at these numbers; I have not art to
especially where he speaks of Priam's slaughter. If it live in
A scullion!
I will win for him if I can; if not, I will gain nothing but my
Ambassador. The sight is dismal;
Are base respects of thrift, but none of love.
And let me wring your heart; for so I shall
and shows a most pitiful ambition in the fool that uses it. Go
Attendants].
appurtenance of welcome is fashion and ceremony. Let me comply
did the first murther! This might be the pate of a Politician,
[Reads]'High and Mighty,-You shall know I am set naked on your
know, to divide him inventorially would dozy th' arithmetic of
And waits upon the judgment; and what judgment
And meant to wrack thee; but beshrew my jealousy!
You are welcome, masters; welcome, all.- I am glad to see thee
Are here arriv'd, give order that these bodies
And ever three parts coward,- I do not know
Give me my father!
Laer. I will do't!
Laer. Well, again!
Could not so mope.
Enter Rosencrantz.
Enter Ghost again.
Here in the lobby.
I would know that.
Of my true mother.
Of his true state.
Swear by my sword.
Dost thou hear me, old friend? Can you play 'The Murther of
till doomsday. Go, get thee to Yaughan; fetch me a stoup of
Swear by my sword.
Bernardo, officer.
The Devil himself.
Within the centre.
Can you advise me?
Let the birds fly, and like the famous ape,
Clown. A whoreson, mad fellow's it was. Whose do you think it was?
Ham. 'Tis e'en so. The hand of little employment hath the daintier
Receiv'd his love?
For your desire to know what is between us,
Hamlet comes back. What would you undertake
Our hasty sending. Something have you heard
Laer. I am lost in it, my lord. But let him come!
[Aside] To my sick soul (as sin's true nature is)
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Keeps wassail, and the swagg'ring upspring reels,
But in battalions! First, her father slain;
As made the things more rich. Their perfume lost,
(Sings) He is dead and gone, lady,
And lose the name of action.- Soft you now!
May violets spring! I tell thee, churlish priest,
Clown. You lie out on't, sir, and therefore 'tis not yours.
The great man down, you mark his favourite flies,
his authorities. But such officers do the King best service in
ACT III. Scene I.
A sable silver'd.
An eye like Mars, to threaten and command;
As hush as death- anon the dreadful thunder
And both neglect. What if this cursed hand
 God 'a'mercy on his soul!
And, like a neutral to his will and matter,
And, as the sleeping soldiers in th' alarm,
Mar. My good lord!
Mar. O, wonderful!
Ros. Good my lord!
Oph. Good my lord,
For. Go softly on.
Hor. Half a share.
love passing well.
By their oppress'd and fear-surprised eyes,
Against yourself. I know you are no truant.
master's daughter.
tell me one thing.
the players ready.
Ham. Are you fair?
Ber. Who's there.?
Ham. Whose was it?
Pol. What said he?
Ros. Believe what?
And, mermaid-like, awhile they bore her up;
Flourish. [Enter King and Queen, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, cum aliis.
 [Exit Attendant.]
Given private time to you, and you yourself
Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all.
You are the Queen, your husband's brother's wife,
King. Stay, give me drink. Hamlet, this pearl is thine;
Oph. I do not know, my lord, what I should think,
Ham. We shall know by this fellow. The players cannot keep counsel;
Who does it, then? His madness. If't be so,
kingdom. To-morrow shall I beg leave to see your kingly eyes;
unto him. He takes her up, and declines his head upon her
the end. He keeps them, like an ape, in the corner of his jaw;
 Enter Hamlet, Rosencrantz, [Guildenstern,] and others.
journeymen had made men, and not made them well, they imitated
 [Exit Gentleman.]
Ham. I have heard of your paintings too, well enough. God hath
Ham. I would I had been there.
Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kind of gaingiving as
Ham. Let the doors be shut upon him, that he may play the fool
Ham. God's bodykins, man, much better! Use every man after his
Queen. What have I done that thou dar'st wag thy tongue
bar the door upon your own liberty, if you deny your griefs to
knave jowls it to the ground,as if 'twere Cain's jawbone, that
should be old as I am if, like a crab, you could go backward.
By the mass, I was about to say something! Where did I leave?
Ham. Why, anything- but to th' purpose. You were sent for; and
Ham. And do still, by these pickers and stealers!
And from his mouth whose voice will draw on more.
And, sister, as the winds give benefit
Ham. Then you live about her waist, or in the middle of her
Even with the very comment of thy soul
Enter a King and a Queen very lovingly; the Queen embracing
Ham. Two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats
Ham. A goodly one; in which there are many confines, wards, and
And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest!
And even the like precurse of fierce events,
And his commission to employ those soldiers,
And thrice his head thus waving up and down,
For food and diet, to some enterprise
And, with his other hand thus o'er his brow,
A fault against the dead, a fault to nature,
All. Gentlemen!
That to Laertes I forgot myself,
Ham. My fate cries out
Carve for himself, for on his choice depends
Ber. 'Tis here!
Ham. No, not I!
To put an antic disposition on),
Horatio!- or I do forget myself.
Flourish. Exeunt all but Hamlet.
Ham. He will stay till you come.
Hor. I think it lacks of twelve.
As they fell out by time, by means, and place,
That he is open to incontinency.
plunge him into far more choler.
what part a gentleman would see.
King. Thy loving father, Hamlet.
Ham. What, look'd he frowningly.
Pol. It is back'd like a weasel.
Guil. My lord, we were sent for.
King. How may we try it further?
King. What do you call the play?
Who this had seen, with tongue in venom steep'd
Where should We have our thanks?
A silence in the heavens, the rack stand still,
And put it in his pocket!
Ham. Hold off your hands!
 All flaxen was his poll.
 Enter King and Polonius.
After the thing it loves.
And tell you what I know.
Guildenstern, and other Lords attendant, with the Guard
For good Polonius' death, and we have done but greenly
Hor. What art thou that usurp'st this time of night
But he's an arrant knave.
As to peace-parted souls.
And, as he drains his draughts of Rhenish down,
Yea, from the table of my memory
sing? Will they not say afterwards, if they should grow
whirlwind of your passion, you must acquire and beget a
Alack, and fie for shame!
Ham. Words, words, words.
Hor. 'Tis here!
And if thou prate of mountains, let them throw
Else could you not have motion; but sure that sense
Against thy mother aught. Leave her to heaven,
Enter Prologue.
Enter Polonius.
his purchases, and double ones too, than the length and breadth
And pious action we do sugar o'er
Enter Polonius.
Now I am alone.
The Scripture says Adam digg'd. Could he dig without arms? I'll
Ghost. Mark me.
Ham. At supper.
'Lord Hamlet is a prince, out of thy star.
And now I'll do't. And so he goes to heaven,
As make your bouts more violent to that end-
Eats not the flats with more impetuous haste
From whence though willingly I came to Denmark
He hath not fail'd to pester us with message
Ham. It is as easy as lying. Govern these ventages with your
I cannot dream of. I entreat you both
I have a voice and precedent of peace
But that the dread of something after death-
Ham. These tedious old fools!
not so wildly from my affair.
All. Our duty to your honour.
Fortinbras, Prince of Norway.
Grows wide withal. Perhaps he loves you now,
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common.
His father's death and our o'erhasty marriage.
Doubt that the sun doth move;
And end his being. That done, he lets me go,
Are most select and generous, chief in that.
Forth at your eyes your spirits wildly peep;
Enter Horatio with an Attendant.
Guil. We will ourselves provide.
Go to their graves like beds, fight for a plot
The rather, if you could devise it so
Ham. [aside] Wormwood, wormwood!
Looking before and after, gave us not
To make it truster of your own report
Queen. Alas, look here, my lord!
Ghost. I am thy father's spirit,
And still your fingers on your lips, I pray.
Let in the maid, that out a maid
shall be the end of my business.
Laer. Say you so? Come on. Play.
Conjures the wand'ring stars, and makes them stand
Clown. Very strangely, they say.
Did the king sigh, but with a general groan.
Fell in the weeping brook. Her clothes spread wide
For use almost can change the stamp of nature,
You that look pale and tremble at this chance,
Laertes before you fall to play.
King. He made confession of you;
 For some must watch, while some must sleep:
The ears are senseless that should give us bearing
Was our sea-fight; and what to this was sequent
they are. To a nunnery, go.Exit.
Pol. What follows then, my lord?
What wouldst thou have, Laertes?
Laer. What out of this, my lord?
Hoist with his own petar; and 't shall go hard
Hamlet, son to the former, and nephew to the present king.
Ros. Ay, that they do, my lord- Hercules and his load too.
The heartache, and the thousand natural shocks
To let this canker of our nature come
the doctor; for me to put him to his purgation would perhaps
The bell then beating one-
Ber. It would be spoke to.
Couch we awhile, and mark.
Come short of what he did.
Enter Laertes with others.
Exeunt King and Polonius].
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Give you good night. Exit.
Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead
Horatio, friend to Hamlet.
The triumph of his pledge.
The Frenchman gave you; bring you in fine together
Ham. This likes me well. These foils have all a length?
speak it profanely), that, neither having the accent of
For loan oft loses both itself and friend,
Th' expectancy and rose of the fair state,
Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works.
The Queen carouses to thy fortune, Hamlet.
Before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks;
Let the bloat King tempt you again to bed;
Doth all the noble substance often dout To his own scandal.
Hor. What are they that would speak with me?
Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? O! most true! she is a
Laer. A Norman was't?
(for the most part) are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb
Hor. Remember it, my lord!
Hor. That is most certain.
Hor. What's that, my lord?
Hor. There needs no ghost, my lord, come from the grave
Oph. And hath given countenance to his speech, my lord,
Hor. This lapwing runs away with the shell on his head.
Hor. Custom hath made it in him a Property of easiness.
Ham. If she should break it now!
Ham. For God's love let me hear!
Hor. Be rul'd. You shall not go.
Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis kin.
Subscrib'd it, gave't th' impression, plac'd it safely,
Oph. Belike this show imports the argument of the play.
Oph. So please you, something touching the Lord Hamlet.
Laer. My lord, I'll hit him now.
This must be known; which, being kept close, might move
brings back to him, that you attend him in the hall. He sends to
Laer. Where is this king?- Sirs, staid you all without.
King. Have you your father's leave? What says Polonius?
a thing to you from his Majesty.
Burn out the sense and virtue of mine eye!
Ham. To be, or not to be- that is the question:
As hell, whereto it goes. My mother stays.
the stair, into the lobby.
Ham. Ay, sir, what of him?
Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit.
Ham. His beard was grizzled- no?
Rhenish on my head once. This same skull, sir, was Yorick's
Ham. Ay, marry, is't;
Laer. Alas, then she is drown'd?
Ham. And therefore as a stranger give it welcome.
 And his sandal shoon.
 Ghost beckons Hamlet.
(For so this side of our known world esteem'd him)
With mirth in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,
That, being of so young clays brought up with him,
Ham. Yes, by Saint Patrick, but there is, Horatio,
Ber. Looks it not like the King? Mark it, Horatio.
Are burnt and purg'd away. But that I am forbid
All. We will, we will!
pate full of fine dirt? Will his vouchers vouch him no more of
Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is it, my lord?
laid on twelve for nine, and it would come to immediate trial
 How should I your true-love know
Osr. The King, sir, hath wager'd with him six Barbary horses;
King. How is it that the clouds still hang on you?
 Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
And batten on this moor? Ha! have you eyes
Oph. He took me by the wrist and held me hard;
Whereon his brains still beating puts him thus
lowest note to the top of my compass; and there is much music,
To pay five ducats, five, I would not farm it;
shall see anon how the murtherer gets the love of Gonzago's wife.
As deep as to the lungs? Who does me this, ha?
scorn her own image, and the very age and body of the time his
And since so neighbour'd to his youth and haviour,
As love between them like the palm might flourish,
All from her father's death. O Gertrude, Gertrude,
And the King's rouse the heaven shall bruit again,
Of Hamlet's wildness. So shall I hope your virtues
there were no sallets in the lines to make the matter savoury,
O what a rogue and peasant slave am I!
Seem to me all the uses of this world!
A cutpurse of the empire and the rule,
And thus do we of wisdom and of reach,
As any the most vulgar thing to sense,
As England was his faithful tributary,
At last, a little shaking of mine arm,
From our achievements, though perform'd at height,
He that hath kill'd my king, and whor'd my mother;
As it doth well appear unto our state,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
A violet in the youth of primy nature,
All given to mine ear.
And will not wrong it.
Are joyfully return'd.
And then this 'should' is like a spendthrift sigh,
Pol. Marry, I will teach you! Think yourself a baby
A Gentleman, courtier.
Ham. O good Horatio, I'll take the ghost's word for a thousand
holds it no sin to tarre them to controversy. There was, for a
in my imagination it is! My gorge rises at it. Here hung those
true diction of him, his semblable is his mirror, and who else
Ham. Why, look you there! Look how it steals away!
Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue.
The Queen, the courtiers. Who is this they follow?
As meditation or the thoughts of love,
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts;
Ham. Seems, madam, Nay, it is. I know not 'seems.'
And how, and who, what means, and where they keep,
With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Of the unworthiest siege.
Thou know'st 'tis common. All that lives must die,
This must not be.' And then I prescripts gave her,
By heaven, I'll make a ghost of him that lets me!-
Ham. Excellent, i' faith; of the chameleon's dish. I eat the air,
Mine and my father's death come not upon thee,
And think it pastime. You shortly shall hear more.
For 'tis the sport to have the enginer
So grace and mercy at your most need help you,
Ham. Alas, poor ghost!
Ham. Up from my cabin,
Ham. Ay, sir, but 'while the grass grows'- the proverb is something
Ham. I do beseech you.
Ber. Well, good night.
Hor. Ay, good my lord.
Hor. Not when I saw't.
 A very, very- pajock.
For the supply and profit of our hope,
Hor. Never believe it.
If by direct or by collateral hand
Look where he goes even now out at the portal!
O, that that earth which kept the world in awe
Queen. Bestow this place on us a little while.
Queen. This is the very coinage of your brain.
That you vouchsafe your rest here in our court
Queen. Come hither, my dear Hamlet, sit by me.
That father lost, lost his, and the survivor bound
Other. I tell thee she is; therefore make her grave straight.
himself; there are no tongues else for's turn.
Fran. Bernardo?
This, in obedience, hath my daughter shown me;
To let you know of it.
Ham. Upon what ground?
Guil. Prison, my lord?
guilty of his own death shortens not his own life.
King. But where is he?
Till I have caught her once more in mine arms.
When sorrows come, they come not single spies.
For he was likely, had he been put on,
And gins to pale his uneffectual fire.
Help, help, ho!
He closes thus: 'I know the gentleman.
'Twere better not assay'd. Therefore this project
An hour of quiet shortly shall we see;
Hold it a fashion, and a toy in blood;
And pity 'tis 'tis true. A foolish figure!
Christians, nor the gait of Christian, pagan, nor man, have so
And in a postscript here, he says 'alone.'
And wager on your heads. He, being remiss,
Into the chapel. I pray you haste in this.
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Come, sir, to draw toward an end with you.
But now, my cousin Hamlet, and my son-
I prithee take thy fingers from my throat;
I have sworn't.
As needful in our loves, fitting our duty?
High on a stage be placed to the view;
 A flourish of trumpets, and two pieces go off.
Ham. How comes it? Do they grow rusty?
Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kind of fighting
If it shall please you to make me a wholesome answer, I will do
Are mortis'd and adjoin'd; which when it falls,
Speak of it! Stay, and speak!- Stop it, Marcellus!
Pol. Yet here, Laertes? Aboard, aboard, for shame!
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd form a little,
Our purpose may hold there.- But stay, what noise,
His form and cause conjoin'd, preaching to stones,
Is now most still, most secret, and most grave,
You, as your business and desires shall point you,
Ham. Why, then the Polack never will defend it.
I doubt some foul play. Would the night were come!
Queen. How cheerfully on the false trail they cry!
To sleep- perchance to dream: ay, there's the rub!
I'll cross it, though it blast me.- Stay illusion!
If he steal aught the whilst this play is playing,
Pol. Affection? Pooh! You speak like a green girl,
Pol. He hath, my lord, wrung from me my slow leave
Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Ghost. Ay, that incestuous, that adulterate beast,
Pol. You shall do marvell's wisely, good Reynaldo,
To bear our hearts in grief, and our whole kingdom
With this contagion, that, if I gall him slightly,
Would step from this to this? Sense sure you have,
Would, like the spring that turneth wood to stone,
Queen. Good gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
In censure of his seeming.
That swoopstake you will draw both friend and foe,
Caps, hands, and tongues applaud it to the clouds,
With witchcraft of his wit, with traitorous gifts-
Ham. Never make known what you have seen to-night.
Hor. My lord, I came to see your father's funeral.
 [Drum; trumpets sound; a piece goes off [within].
King. Thanks, Rosencrantz and gentle Guildenstern.
Pol. The time invites you. Go, your servants tend.
the dead, not for the quick; therefore thou liest.
Pol. At such a time I'll loose my daughter to him.
King. Thyself do grace to them, and bring them in.
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our own.
Termagant. It out-herods Herod. Pray you avoid it.
Where we shall find him most conveniently. Exeunt.
Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment.
Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended.
at his post; then] Bernardo, [who approaches him].
Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear;
Ham. O all you host of heaven! O earth! What else?
Mar. What, has this thing appear'd again to-night?
What should this mean? Are all the rest come back?
I have some rights of memory in this kingdom
Osr. Your lordship speaks most infallibly of him.
Ham. I do not well understand that. Will you play upon this pipe?
Ham. He that plays the king shall be welcome- his Majesty shall
Or to the dreadful summit of the cliff
Ham. 'The Mousetrap.' Marry, how? Tropically. This play is the
Pol. Fore God, my lord, well spoken, with good accent and good
Most throughly for my father.
Oph. Still better, and worse.
Most welcome home! Exeunt Ambassadors.
Seek for thy noble father in the dust.
Oph. Madam, I wish it may.
Till by some elder masters of known honour
Mar. My lord, upon the platform where we watch'd.
To grunt and sweat under a weary life,
My soul is full of discord and dismay.
Than are dreamt of in your philosophy.
That he which hath your noble father slain
entertainment than yours. You are welcome. But my uncle-father
That thy rebellion looks so giantlike?
Throws up [another skull].
Possess it merely. That it should come to this!
To sound what stop she please. Give me that man
To serve in such a difference. What devil was't
Or my dear Majesty your queen here, think,
This above all- to thine own self be true,
And, like the kind life-rend'ring pelican,
Thence to a watch, thence into a weakness,
Rankly abus'd. But know, thou noble youth,
My crown, mine own ambition, and my queen.
speak. 'Sblood, do you think I am easier to be play'd on than a
No medicine in the world can do thee good.
Thou mixture rank, of midnight weeds collected,
Hor. Look, my lord, it comes!
You have been talk'd of since your travel much,
They find us touch'd, we will our kingdom give,
And then, they say, no spirit dare stir abroad,
What we two nights have seen.
Pol. Come, go with me. I will go seek the King.
In Denmark's crown have worn. Give me the cups;
But mad in craft. 'Twere good you let him know;
Hor. As I do live, my honour'd lord, 'tis true;
Soil our addition; and indeed it takes
King. Gertrude, do not drink.
King. Let's follow, Gertrude.
shipwright, or the carpenter?
Of this post-haste and romage in the land.
That flesh is heir to. 'Tis a consummation
To make oppression bitter, or ere this
Ham. He did comply with his dug before he suck'd it. Thus has he,
Unto that element; but long it could not be
Guil. Nay, good my lord, this courtesy is not of the right breed.
Unmix'd with baser matter. Yes, by heaven!
will leave him and suddenly contrive the means of meeting between
O, this is counter, you false Danish dogs!
But look, the morn, in russet mantle clad,
Lost by his father, with all bands of law,
O limed soul, that, struggling to be free,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy! Come, bird, come.
Ros. To think, my lord, if you delight not in man, what lenten
earth; of earth we make loam; and why of that loam (whereto he
would play upon me; you would seem to know my stops; you would
which this ass now o'erreaches; one that would circumvent God,
They were given me by Claudio; he receiv'd them
Be all my sins rememb'red.
Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our mother. Have you any
King. To thine own peace. If he be now return'd
Fran. Give you good night.
Fort. Where is this sight?
Guil. Heavens make our presence and our practices
King. If it be so, Laertes
Wherein necessity, of matter beggar'd,
Guil. No, my lord; rather with choler.
Laer. This nothing's more than matter.
Would have mourn'd longer) married with my uncle;
dreadfully attended. But in the beaten way of friendship, what
'Tis too much prov'd, that with devotion's visage
alone became their prisoner. They have dealt with me like thieves
obligation of our ever-preserved love, and by what more dear a
desert, and who should scape whipping? Use them after your own
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate pride,
That are but mutes or audience to this act,
That I, the son of a dear father murther'd,
Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,
needs marry, marry a fool; for wise men know well enough what
Oph. My lord, as I was sewing in my closet,
Pol. The best actors in the world, either for tragedy, comedy,
passionate action. The Poisoner with some three or four Mutes,
To hide the slain? O, from this time forth,
Which we do tender as we dearly grieve
Enter [two Players as] King and Queen.
Enter two Sentinels-[first,] Francisco, [who paces up and down
We'll put on those shall praise your excellence
King. I pray thee, good Horatio, wait upon him.
pray You Pass with your best violence;
God bless you, sir!
Ham. A bloody deed- almost as bad, good mother,
Ham. Hear you, sir!
Ham. A whole one I!
Over the nasty sty!
That he cried out 'twould be a sight indeed
action how like an angel! in apprehension how like a god! the
In his true nature, and we ourselves compell'd,
But soft! but soft! aside! Here comes the King-
his replies are! a happiness that often madness hits on, which
'Thus didest thou.'
his fines, and the recovery of his recoveries, to have his fine
I have a daughter (have while she is mine),
I have a speech of fire, that fain would blaze
But answer made it none. Yet once methought
King. Good Laertes,
Good night, mother.
And we beseech you, bend you to remain
As you are friends, scholars, and soldiers,
Both. We'll wait upon you.
through the most fann'd and winnowed opinions; and do but blow
Now falls on Priam.
Hor. I beseech you.
Ham. Sir, a whole history.
Ham. Upon my sword.
Must (like a whore) unpack my heart with words
And passion in the gods.'
Ham. Safely stow'd.
gently; for in the very torrent, tempest, and (as I may say)
Is very cunning in.
Marcellus, officer.
Marcellus, Officer.
Of bell and burial.
King. So you shall;
Ham. Into my grave?
Ham. What hour now?
Ham. How strangely?
What is the matter?
Ham. Is't possible?
Hor. Is't possible?
More than in words?
I'll rant as well as thou.
King. Pluck thein asunder.
King. Bring him before us.
Laer. O, treble woe
What thou hast said to me.
King. The doors are broke.
Hor. Before my God, I might not this believe
Other. Why, 'tis found so.
Oph. I hope all will be well. We must be patient; but I cannot
Laer. He is justly serv'd.
Repast them with my blood.
And convoy is assistant, do not sleep,
Whereon old Norway, overcome with joy,
feather. I have of late- but wherefore I know not- lost all my
Queen. Have you forgot me?
image of a murther done in Vienna. Gonzago is the duke's name;
So frown'd he once when, in an angry parle,
Like John-a-dreams, unpregnant of my cause,
Other. Was he a gentleman?
mirth, forgone all custom of exercises; and indeed, it goes so
Mad call I it; for, to define true madness,
Lord. The King and Queen and all are coming down.
My good friends, I'll leave you till night. You are welcome to
Guil. Good my lord, vouchsafe me a word with you.
But, in the verity of extolment, I take him to be a soul of great
Ham. Bid the players make haste, [Exit Polonius.] Will you two
But soft! methinks I scent the morning air.
I am justly kill'd with mine own treachery.
More grief to hide than hate to utter love.
But this most foul, strange, and unnatural.
I hold it fit that we shake hands and part;
King. Laertes, was your father dear to you?
Osr. The King, sir, hath laid that, in a dozen passes between
of the peasant comes so near the heel of the courtier he galls
he knew me not at first. He said I was a fishmonger. He is far
will last you some eight year or nine year. A tanner will last
visitation? Come, deal justly with me. Come, come! Nay, speak.
Ham. O villany! Ho! let the door be lock'd.
Pol. [to the King] O, ho! do you mark that?
Not shriving time allow'd.
O, the recorders! Let me see one. To withdraw with you- why do
Tears in his eyes, distraction in's aspect,
great buyer of land, with his statutes, his recognizances, his
heavily with my disposition that this goodly frame, the earth,
brought, the gentleman willing, and the King hold his purpose,
glean'd, it is but squeezing you and, sponge, you shall be dry
inoculate our old stock but we shall relish of it. I loved you
Pol. [aside] Still on my daughter.
heroes the beggars' shadows. Shall we to th' court? for, by my
A very noble youth. Mark.
pocky corses now-a-days that will scarce hold the laying in, I
anything we see. We'll have a speech straight. Come, give us a
reason and sanity could not so prosperously be delivered of. I
Oph. There's rosemary, that's for remembrance. Pray you, love,
counsel. Come, my coach! Good night, ladies. Good night, sweet
And will this brother's wager frankly play.
That I might be the organ.
march. [Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz,
Thou find'st to be too busy is some danger.
Why the man dies.- I humbly thank you, sir.
Capt. Against some part of Poland.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Never Hamlet.
of our fellowship, by the consonancy of our youth, by the
Mar. Question it, Horatio.
hold up Adam's profession.
where my abridgment comes.
your bounty. Take them in.
Ros. To what end, my lord?
When it prov'd otherwise.?
Rey. Good my lord![Going.]
With an attent ear, till I may deliver
To give them seals never, my soul, consent! Exit.
No more, sweet Hamlet!
This man shall set me packing.
Mar. No, it is struck.
Of man and country-
Ham. Sir, I cannot.
Of general assault.
The Queen's closet.
To the unsatisfied.
This marvel to you.
bellow for revenge.
have not the skill.
You know the wager?
My lord, not I.
Osr. Ay, my good lord.
Who hath reliev'd you?
Pol. Mad for thy love?
To muddy death.
Unto our climature and countrymen.
make you ready.
A minist'ring angel shall my sister be
That inward breaks, and shows no cause without
now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment that
And what's in prayer but this twofold force,
Queen. O, speak to me no more!
eyes. Prithee no more!
Queen. Alas, he's mad!
Queen. But not by him!
Plautus too light. For the law of writ and the liberty, these are
of mercy; but they knew what they did: I am to do a good turn for
Queen. Hamlet, Hamlet!
 'As by lot, God wot,'
In thews and bulk; but as this temple waxes,
Most generous, and free from all contriving,
Clamb'ring to hang, an envious sliver broke,
Than is the throne of Denmark to thy father.
Confederate season, else no creature seeing;
Sir, in this audience,
Farewell, dear mother.
Must render up myself.
Nor thine on me! Dies.
Pol. This is too long.
Rosencrantz, courtier.
When he is fit and seasoned for his passage?
Oph. At home, my lord.
Ros. Neither, my lord.
Rey. I shall, my lord.
King. Not that I know.
Stoops to his base, and with a hideous crash
Here, Hamlet, take my napkin, rub thy brows.
Hor. E'en so, my lord.
Ros. Then thus she says: your behaviour hath struck her into
there is a kind of confession in your looks, which your modesties
Other. The gallows-maker; for that frame outlives a thousand
pound! Didst perceive?
thy damnable faces, and begin! Come, the croaking raven doth
your whoreson dead body. Here's a skull now. This skull hath lien
Oph. What is, my lord?
Queen. More matter, with less art.
shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipp'd for o'erdoing
That have a father klll'd, a mother stain'd,
And that, I hope, will teach you to imagine-
Laer. That drop of blood that's calm proclaims me bastard;
Queen. As kill a king?
O villain, villain, smiling, damned villain!
And so am I reveng'd. That would be scann'd.
[Puts down the skull.]
Fort. Let us haste to hear it,
 Exeunt [all but the Captain].
This night to play before him.
King. Conceit upon her father.
given you one face, and you make yourselves another. You jig, you
But break my heart, for I must hold my tongue!
And shall I couple hell? Hold, hold, my heart!
Mar. 'Tis gone!
Queen. No more!
I'll visit you.
Than Young Laertes, in a riotous head,
King. A Norman.
That I have longed long to re-deliver.
There, my lord.
by William Shakespeare
Quoth she, 'Before you tumbled me,
Do not believe his vows; for they are brokers,
As watchman to my heart. But, good my brother,
Of reverend Priam, seem'd i' th' air to stick.
To any pastime?
A serpent stung me. So the whole ear of Denmark
But greatly to find quarrel in a straw
 'HAMLET.'
As Vulcan's stithy. Give him heedful note;
By heaven, thy madness shall be paid by weight
 Polonius.
But do not dull thy palm with entertainment
A baseness to write fair, and labour'd much
Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damn'd,
 For if the King like not the comedy,
As one incapable of her own distress,
Clown. How can that be, unless she drown'd herself in her own
 Hautboys play. The dumb show enters.
By heaven, it is as proper to our age
For by the image of my cause I see
 By his cockle bat and' staff
 And in his grave rain'd many a tear.
That capability and godlike reason
Most necessary 'tis that we forget
But even his mother shall uncharge the practice
By this encompassment and drift of question
Ros. Truly, and I hold ambition of so airy and light a quality that
May be a devil; and the devil hath power
Ham. I will receive it, sir, with all diligence of spirit. Put your
 Hath now this dread and black complexion smear'd
Under the moon, can save the thing from death
But on! Six Barbary horses against six French swords, their
 With heraldry more dismal. Head to foot
excellent voice, in this little organ, yet cannot you make it
 Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, [with some
altitude of a chopine. Pray God your voice, like a piece of
My brother shall know of it; and so I thank you for your good
And either [master] the devil, or throw him out
Ay, thou poor ghost, while memory holds a seat
 And thus o'ersized with coagulate gore,
Haply the seas, and countries different,
His means of death, his obscure funeral-
Ham. Sir, his definement suffers no perdition in you; though, I
It fits your wisdom so far to believe it
Francisco, a soldier
With windlasses and with assays of bias,
King. A very riband in the cap of youth-
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Where every god did seem to set his seal
With almost all the holy vows of heaven.
Ham. Why, then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing either good
enough, and likelihood to lead it; as thus: Alexander died,
for love- very near this. I'll speak to him again.- What do you
Hor. If your mind dislike anything, obey it. I will forestall their
Hor. [aside] His purse is empty already. All's golden words are
Then, venom, to thy work.Hurts the King.
 A noise within.
 Enter Polonius.
 The cock crows.
 Enter Lucianus.
 Exit Messenger.
 Enter Polonius.
him about the sconce with a dirty shovel, and will not tell him
 Enter Polonius.
A damn'd defeat was made. Am I a coward?
convocation of politic worms are e'en at him. Your worm is your
 Exeunt Players.
And for my means, I'll husband them so well
But you shall hear. Thus:
Unbated and envenom'd. The foul practice
'Tis meet that some more audience than a mother,
As in their birth,- wherein they are not guilty,
 and then, you know,
Laer. My dread lord,
Guil. The King, sir-
 [Reads] the letter.
 Leaps in the grave.
A Norwegian Captain.
And prey on garbage.
And hurt my brother.
But in our circumstance and course of thought,
English Ambassadors.
Hor. A piece of him.
Hor. Nay, very pale.
I be so able as now.
Guil. O my lord, if my duty be too bold, my love is too unmannerly.
hath sent me to you.
Ham. No such matter! I will not sort you with the rest of my
King. The very same.
Cornelius, courtier.
Laer. Farewell.Exit.
 Go to thy deathbed;
Hor. My lord, I did;
and we had the trick to see't. Did these bones cost no more the
 No, no, he is dead;
He is dead and gone;
end his part in peace; the clown shall make those laugh whose
and sure, dear friends, my thanks are too dear a halfpenny. Were
Hor. While one with moderate haste might tell a hundred.
Ham. Arm'd, say you?
 [Scatters flowers.]
'Thine evermore, most dear lady, whilst this machine is to him,
Hor. Is it a custom?
Guil. What, my lord?
Ham. To this effect, sir, after what flourish your nature will.
better proposer could charge you withal, be even and direct with
hear? Let them be well us'd; for they are the abstract and brief
honesty from what it is to a bawd than the force of honesty can
 Now is be total gules, horridly trick'd
Ham. The concernancy, sir? Why do we wrap the gentleman in our more
boarded them. On the instant they got clear of our ship; so I
But, orderly to end where I begun,
My custom always of the afternoon,
King. Let's further think of this,
If it be so- as so 'tis put on me,
 For thou dost know, O Damon dear,
twenty, forty, fifty, a hundred ducats apiece for his picture in
of a pair of indentures? The very conveyances of his lands will
were wont to set the table on a roar? Not one now, to mock your
Clown. Why, there thou say'st! And the more pity that great folk
Be you and I behind an arras then.
him and drown him, he drowns not himself. Argal, he that is not
set down with as much modesty as cunning. I remember one said
Elsinore. A passage in the Castle.
married already- all but one- shall live; the rest shall keep as
Ham. In heaven. Send thither to see. If your messenger find him not
But that this folly douts it.Exit.
Ham. That I can keep your counsel, and not mine own. Besides, to be
Ham. I am constant to my purposes; they follow the King's pleasure.
thee where I am. Rosencrantz and Guildenstern hold their course
Pol. If you call me Jephthah, my lord, I have a daughter that I
Ham. Methinks it is like a weasel.
 With eyes like carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Queen. Come, let me wipe thy face.
'Swounds, I should take it! for it cannot be
(O royal knavery!), an exact command,
Ham. Ay, or any show that you'll show him. Be not you asham'd to
King. How fares our cousin Hamlet?
Ham. Ay, so, God b' wi' ye!
him and he her. She kneels, and makes show of protestation
King. How long hath she been thus?
Laer. How now? What noise is that?
Hor. You might have rhym'd.
To hear and see the matter.
 [Lifts up the arras and sees Polonius.]
lungs are tickle o' th' sere; and the lady shall say her mind
 For and a shrouding sheet;
And that in way of caution- I must tell you
you go about to recover the wind of me, as if you would drive me
Ham. Do you see yonder cloud that's almost in shape of a camel?
temperance that may give it smoothness. O, it offends me to the
Be you content to lend your patience to us,
And by opposing end them. To die- to sleep-
Ros. My lord, you must tell us where the body is and go with us to
By what it fed on; and yet, within a month-
Ham. Why, look you now, how unworthy a thing you make of me! You
Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more.
Ham. Dost thou think Alexander look'd o' this fashion i' th' earth?
Ham. I am glad of it. A knavish speech sleeps in a foolish ear.
form and pressure. Now this overdone, or come tardy off, though
willingly part withal- except my life, except my life, except my
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
favour she must come. Make her laugh at that. Prithee, Horatio,
very responsive to the hilts, most delicate carriages, and of
individable, or poem unlimited. Seneca cannot be too heavy, nor
only emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else to fat us, and
when I shall (first asking your pardon thereunto) recount the
And lose your voice. What wouldst thou beg, Laertes,
question next, say 'a grave-maker.' The houses he makes lasts
o'erweigh a whole theatre of others. O, there be players that I
which was the model of that Danish seal;
pipe? Call me what instrument you will, though you can fret me,
there, seek him i' th' other place yourself. But indeed, if you
Lord. My lord, his Majesty commended him to you by young Osric, who
Gentlemen. (within) Hamlet! Lord Hamlet!
Both. Ay, by heaven, my lord.
my mother. Therefore no more, but to the matter! My mother, you
But the great cannon to the clouds shall tell,
Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed,
Th' unnerved father falls. Then senseless Ilium,
Ham. My mother! Father and mother is man and wife; man and wife is
Have heaven and earth together demonstrated
The light and careless livery that it wears
Friends both, go join you with some further aid.
Doth make the night joint-labourer with the day?
Guil. But these cannot I command to any utt'rance of harmony. I
Out of the shot and danger of desire.
and his tricks? Why does he suffer this rude knave now to knock
not saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all
For look you how cheerfully my mother looks, and my father died
The first row of the pious chanson will show you more; for look
Ham. For if the sun breed maggots in a dead dog, being a god
And carriage of the article design'd,
Ham. The phrase would be more germane to the matter if we could
Though lewdness court it in a shape of heaven,
And (would it were not so!) you are my mother.
But from what cause he will by no means speak.
Why such impress of shipwrights, whose sore task
Ham. Hic et ubique? Then we'll shift our ground.
have seen play, and heard others praise, and that highly (not to
Ham. Not a whit, we defy augury; there's a special providence in
For like the hectic in my blood he rages,
Fix'd on the summit of the highest mount,
Does not divide the Sunday from the week.
Ham. O my prophetic soul!
Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I believe
I'll speak to it, though hell itself should gape
Laer. Most humbly do I take my leave, my lord.
May do t' express his love and friending to you,
That, for some vicious mole of nature in them,
answer is I can make, you shall command; or rather, as you say,
For 'tis a question left us yet to prove,
To let his madness range. Therefore prepare you;
O, you must wear your rue with a difference! There's a daisy. I
For me, with sorrow I embrace my fortune.
Had made his course t' illume that part of heaven
Ham. Then came each actor on his ass-
Have you so slander any moment leisure
Hunts not the trail of policy so sure
I would not, in plain terms, from this time forth
Nor shall you do my ear that violence
O, step between her and her fighting soul
Our wills and fates do so contrary run
To Norway, uncle of young Fortinbras,
Th' extravagant and erring spirit hies
No, let the candied tongue lick absurd pomp,
Ros. The single and peculiar life is bound
The pith and marrow of our attribute.
Mar. We have sworn, my lord, already.
Pol. The actors are come hither, my lord.
Thou liv'st; report me and my cause aright
Ears without hands or eyes, smelling sans all,
Ham. Being thus benetted round with villanies,
Till the last trumpet. For charitable prayers,
Ber. See, it stalks away!
Guil. Which dreams indeed are ambition; for the very substance of
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
That, from her working, all his visage wann'd,
Then up he rose and donn'd his clo'es
Hast ta'en with equal thanks; and blest are those
Ham. You should not have believ'd me; for virtue cannot so
Yet must not we put the strong law on him.
Ham. But yet methinks it is very sultry and hot for my complexion.
Is it not monstrous that this player here,
Then goes he to the length of all his arm,
Why, what an ass am I! This is most brave,
 Exeunt King and Queen, [with Attendants].
It had been so with us, had we been there.
I am very proud, revengeful, ambitious; with more offences at my
Which was declining on the milky head
Save me and hover o'er me with your wings,
Hor [aside to Hamlet] Is't not possible to understand in another
When second husband kisses me in bed.
When the compulsive ardour gives the charge,
Which now, to claim my vantage doth invite me.
Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell and count myself a
Exit Reynaldo.
Enter Horatio.
Enter Sailors.
Enter Ophelia.
Ham. I do not think so. Since he went into France I have been in
Queen. Good Hamlet, cast thy nighted colour off,
spectators to laugh too, though in the mean time some necessary
Queen. But look where sadly the poor wretch comes reading.
soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to
For her perfections. But my revenge will come.
Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying;
Had he been vanquisher, as, by the same comart
and many more of the same bevy that I know the drossy age dotes
Ham. Judgment!
Ham. So be it!
Hor. In faith,
Ham. Hark you, Guildenstern- and you too- at each ear a hearer!
Clown. Cannot you tell that? Every fool can tell that. It was the
are no better), their writers do them wrong to make them exclaim
of his action of battery? Hum! This fellow might be in's time a
Ham. Here's the commission; read it at more leisure.
Ham. Why, e'en so! and now my Lady Worm's, chapless, and knock'd
the point: if I drown myself wittingly, it argues an act; and an
lips that I have kiss'd I know not how oft. Where be your gibes
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] I knew you must be edified by the margent
piece of work is a man! how noble in reason! how infinite in
scarcely lie in this box; and must th' inheritor himself have no
target; the lover shall not sigh gratis; the humorous man shall
Ham. Well said, old mole! Canst work i' th' earth so fast?
tell how. But, my lord, his Majesty bade me signify to you that
chronicles of the time. After your death you were better have a
vice to know him. He hath much land, and fertile. Let a beast be
the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not to come', if it be
Ham. We'll ha't to-morrow night. You could, for a need, study a
Lord. The Queen desires you to use some gentle entertainment to
Would not this, sir, and a forest of feathers- if the rest of my
Ham. Why did you laugh then, when I said 'Man delights not me'?
What majesty should be, what duty is,
To you yourself, to us, to every one.
his wife, Baptista. You shall see anon. 'Tis a knavish piece of
You do remember all the circumstance?
or if it was, not above once; for the play, I remember, pleas'd
Ham. Slanders, sir; for the satirical rogue says here that old men
amble, and you lisp; you nickname God's creatures and make your
question of the play be then to be considered. That's villanous
tatters, to very rags, to split the cars of the groundlings, who
Ham. Saw? who?
 [They swear.]
 [Exit Queen.]
From the first corse till he that died to-day,
Ham. I will tell you why. So shall my anticipation prevent your
Finger'd their packet, and in fine withdrew
Hath scald thee for herself. For thou hast been
Laer. What ceremony else?
Laer. What ceremony else?
The lists, and full proportions are all made
Let's do't, I pray; and I this morning know
Ham. Good.
Why yet I live to say 'This thing's to do,'
Could not (with all their quantity of love)
Hor. It was, as I have seen it in his life,
Clown. Why, here in Denmark. I have been sexton here, man and boy
Divided from herself and her fair-judgment,
From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
For bearers of this greeting to old Norway,
Ghost. If thou hast nature in thee, bear it not.
For we have closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Ham. It will be short; the interim is mine,
Our chiefest courtier, cousin, and our son.
Ham. Why, even in that was heaven ordinant.
Ham. What?
For they are actions that a man might play;
Ham. This?
Did squeak and gibber in the Roman streets;
Ham. A man may fish with the worm that hath eat of a king, and eat
Hor. Of that I shall have also cause to speak,
If with too credent ear you list his songs,
I have in quick determination
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
My spirits grow dull, and fain I would beguile
Play something like the murther of my father
Rebellious to his arm, lies where it falls,
Lends the tongue vows. These blazes, daughter,
Seeming to feel this blow, with flaming top
King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
Queen. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
Through your dominions for this enterprise,
So by his father lost; and this, I take it,
This bodes some strange eruption to our state.
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
Enter Polonius, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Capt. Truly to speak, and with no addition,
Lives almost by his looks; and for myself,-
I'll lug the guts into the neighbour room.-
Than the main voice of Denmark goes withal.
Never to speak of this that you have heard:
O, my offence is rank, it smells to heaven;
find him not within this month, you shall nose him as you go up
Mar. Shall I strike at it with my partisan?
King. Have you heard the argument? Is there no offence in't?
O wicked wit and gifts, that have the power
I'll board him presently. O, give me leave.
That was and is the question of these wars.
O heat, dry up my brains! Tears seven times salt
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream.
not the million, 'twas caviary to the general; but it was (as I
Pol. And the Queen too, and that presently.
Forward, not permanent- sweet, not lasting;
To have prov'd most royally; and for his passage
Your Grace has laid the odds o' th' weaker side.
gone, far gone! And truly in my youth I suff'red much extremity
Dies not alone, but like a gulf doth draw
Ham. No, by the rood, not so!
Ham. Did you not speak to it?
Ham. Very well. Follow that lord- and look you mock him not.
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Will not debate the question of this straw.
I pray you, now receive them.
Hor. What is it you will see?
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
Dies in his own too-much. That we would do,
Hyperion to a satyr; so loving to my mother
Clown. 'Tis a quick lie, sir; 'twill away again from me to you.
Ham. I humbly thank you, sir. [Aside to Horatio] Dost know this
sinners? I am myself indifferent honest, but yet I could accuse
No hat upon his head, his stockings foul'd,
Pol. What do you think of me?
This something-settled matter in his heart,
Pol. Give first admittance to th' ambassadors.
on the way, and hither are they coming to offer you service.
have not craft enough to colour. I know the good King and Queen
Delay it not; I'll have him hence to-night.
not honesty to have it thus set down; for you yourself, sir,
Infects unseen. Confess yourself to heaven;
And now, Laertes, what's the news with you?
Good my lord, will you see the players well bestow'd? Do you
Is death of fathers, and who still hath cried,
Exchange forgiveness with me, noble Hamlet.
Fran. Bernardo hath my place.
Hor. Not a jot more, my lord.
Like to a murd'ring piece, in many places
Horatio. A fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He
Where joy most revels, grief doth most lament;
choose but weep to think they would lay him i' th' cold ground.
I have seen myself, and serv'd against, the French,
Pol. Faith, no, as you may season it in the charge.
and aunt-mother are deceiv'd.
How now O What hath befall'n?
Hor. Most like. It harrows me with fear and wonder.
To hell, allegiance! vows, to the blackest devil
[Laertes wounds Hamlet; then] in scuffling, they
Oph. I shall th' effect of this good lesson keep
For who that's but a queen, fair, sober, wise,
Your wisdom best shall think.
Ham. The point envenom'd too?
Ham. Look here upon th's picture, and on this,
neither, though by your smiling you seem to say so.
Ham. I dare not confess that, lest I should compare with him in
It was against your Highness; whereat griev'd,
Youth to itself rebels, though none else near.
With such dexterity to incestuous sheets!
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days.Exit.
have tribute of me; the adventurous knight shall use his foil and
Laer. I know him well. He is the broach indeed
Ham. Of nothing. Bring me to him. Hide fox, and all after.
King. Do you think 'tis this?
Though all the earth o'erwhelm them, to men's eyes.
Laer. Do you see this, O God?
Should be as mortal as an old man's life?
They clip us drunkards and with swinish phrase
This mad young man. But so much was our love
entertainment the players shall receive from you. We coted them
fingers and thumbs, give it breath with your mouth, and it will
honour and dignity. The less they deserve, the more merit is in
fines, his double vouchers, his recoveries. Is this the fine of
Hor. What if it tempt you toward the flood, my lord,
light for the bore of the matter. These good fellows will bring
to me than a foul and pestilent congregation of vapours. What a
while, no money bid for argument unless the poet and the player
Clown. Why, sir, his hide is so tann'd with his trade that 'a will
beauty of the world, the paragon of animals! And yet to me what
of question and are most tyrannically clapp'd fort. These are now
roof fretted with golden fire- why, it appeareth no other thing
And of all Christian souls, I pray God. God b' wi', you.
Ham. Thou dost lie in't, to be in't and say it is thine. 'Tis for
is but variable service- two dishes, but to one table. That's the
newly come to court Laertes; believe me, an absolute gentleman,
Till our scale turn the beam. O rose of May!
players do, I had as live the town crier spoke my lines. Nor do
plentiful lack of wit, together with most weak hams. All which,
lord of beasts, and his crib shall stand at the king's mess. 'Tis
That hath a stomach in't; which is no other,
What's near it with it. It is a massy wheel,
Ham. I am very glad to see you.- [To Bernardo] Good even, sir.-
They cry 'Choose we! Laertes shall be king!'
Upon the platform, 'twixt eleven and twelve,
'Tis given out that, sleeping in my orchard,
Addicted so and so'; and there put on him
As one, in suff'ring all, that suffers nothing;
'Tis heavy with him; and am I then reveng'd,
And prais'd be rashness for it; let us know,
That we can let our beard be shook with danger,
Come on! You hear this fellow in the cellarage.
And for the day confin'd to fast in fires,
put another question to thee. If thou answerest me not to the
And scape detecting, I will pay the theft.
And for that purpose I'll anoint my sword.
About the world have times twelve thirties been,
Affront Ophelia.
Clown. Of all the days i' th' year, I came to't that day that our
And bowl the round nave down the hill of heaven,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bawds,
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain,
Enter a Lord.
Laer. The devil take thy soul!
speak no more than is set down for them. For there be of them
Oph. What means your lordship?
And let thine eye look like a friend on Denmark.
One scene of it comes near the circumstance,
Brief let me be. Sleeping within my orchard,
And where th' offence is let the great axe fall.
Than that which dearest father bears his son
O heavens! is't possible a young maid's wits
Act II. Scene I.
As stars with trains of fire, and dews of blood,
And, but that great command o'ersways the order,
Break all the spokes and fellies from her wheel,
ACT IV. Scene I.
And am most sensibly in grief for it,
Almost to jelly with the act of fear,
Do not as some ungracious pastors do,
Did not together pluck such envy from him
A couch for luxury and damned incest.
Drink off this potion! Is thy union here?
A sister driven into desp'rate terms,
And more above, hath his solicitings,
And that I see, in passages of proof,
And our vain blows malicious mockery.
How now, my lord? Will the King hear this piece of work?
think how ill all's here about my heart. But it is no matter.
And call the noblest to the audience.
Aroused vengeance sets him new awork;
King. Break not your sleeps for that. You must not think
excellence; but to know a man well were to know himself.
for England. Of them I have much to tell thee. Farewell.
But let that go.
And, in this upshot, purposes mistook
King. [rises] My words fly up, my thoughts remain below.
Laer. A document in madness! Thoughts and remembrance fitted.
Dar'd to the combat; in which our valiant Hamlet
me of such things that it were better my mother had not borne me.
Clown. What is he that builds stronger than either the mason, the
 Exeunt Polonius and Players [except the First].
If his fitness speaks, mine is ready; now or whensoever, provided
That both the world, I give to negligence,
Did sometimes march? By heaven I charge thee speak!
That no revenue hast but thy good spirits
Gives him three thousand crowns in annual fee
But never the offence. To bear all smooth and even,
Guil. Nor do we find him forward to be sounded,
To cast thee up again. What may this mean
That great baby you see there is not yet out of his swaddling
Would have made milch the burning eyes of heaven
deserved at the hands of Fortune that she sends you to prison
escoted? Will they pursue the quality no longer than they can
Farewell. My blessing season this in thee!
He should the bearers put to sudden death,
Our state to be disjoint and out of frame,
Gent. She is importunate, indeed distract.
Make up my sum. What wilt thou do for her?
When he himself might his quietus make
To keep it from divulging, let it feed
That else leans on th' affair. Pray you make haste.
To tell him his commandment is fulfill'd
Even in their promise, as it is a-making,
Sailor. 'A shall, sir, an't please him. There's a letter for you,
What is between you? Give me up the truth.
 The which he loved passing well.'
Enter King.
Enter King.
An thou hadst not come to my bed.'
Is by a forged process of my death
But let it be. Horatio, I am dead;
That ever I was born to set it right!
How in my words somever she be shent,
Of habits evil, is angel yet in this,
Get you a place.
Why seems it so particular with thee?
It may be death.
In filial obligation for some term
Let his queen mother all alone entreat him
Most holy and religious fear it is
O heavy burthen!
Queen. Ay, amen!
When I to sulph'rous and tormenting flames
Luc. Thoughts black, hands apt, drugs fit, and time agreeing;
Queen. If it be,
him asleep, leaves him. Anon comes in a fellow, takes off his
yourself and him, he shall not exceed you three hits; he hath
 'The rugged Pyrrhus, like th' Hyrcanian beast-'
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from heaven to earth,
Ham. An earnest conjuration from the King,
Oph. My lord, I have remembrances of yours
That I have? He would drown the stage with tears
Ber. He.
keep out water a great while; and your water is a sore decayer of
that will themselves laugh, to set on some quantity of barren
Ham. That you must teach me. But let me conjure you by the rights
very warlike appointment gave us chase. Finding ourselves too
very day that young Hamlet was born- he that is mad, and sent
And much offence too. Touching this vision here,
And they shall hear and judge 'twixt you and me.
Enter Hamlet and Guildenstern [with Attendants].
Volt. Most fair return of greetings and desires.
Queen. The lady doth protest too much, methinks.
Exeunt marching; after the which a peal of ordnance
Till that her garments, heavy with their drink,
Farewell, and let your haste commend your duty.
Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads
Hazard so near us as doth hourly grow
 Enter Hamlet, reading on a book.
Ham. Why, I will fight with him upon this theme
And that his soul may be as damn'd and black
Being a thing immortal as itself?
If Hamlet from himself be taken away,
Answer, and think upon this business.
Hor. So have I heard and do in part believe it.
Guil. But with much forcing of his disposition.
I shall not look upon his like again.
Goes slow and stately by them. Thrice he walk'd
Thence to a lightness, and, by this declension,
Importing health and graveness. Two months since
Lay not that flattering unction to your soul
Out of my weakness and my melancholy,
Queen. So many journeys may the sun and moon
Without more motive, into every brain
Thus much the business is: we have here writ
From that particular fault. The dram of e'il
Was gaged by our king; which had return'd
As had he been incorps'd and demi-natur'd
And let the kettle to the trumpet speak,
Oph. Pray let's have no words of this; but when they ask, you what
And many such-like as's of great charge,
Such as it is; and for my own poor part,
faculties! in form and moving how express and admirable! in
After the Danish sword, and thy free awe
And to the manner born, it is a custom
And terms compulsatory, those foresaid lands
Ghost. My hour is almost come,
king of infinite space, were it not that I have bad dreams.
went to cuffs in the question.
King. Let him demand his fill.
Fran. I think I hear them. Stand, ho! Who is there?
Player. I warrant your honour.
Reynaldo, servant to Polonius.
A villain kills my father; and for that,
Form of the thing, each word made true and good,
For who would bear the whips and scorns of time,
Importing the surrender of those lands
Therefore I have entreated him along,
Thus set it down: he shall with speed to England
All in the morning bedtime,
For Hecuba!
For who not needs shall never lack a friend,
For art and exercise in your defence,
If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones,
Both. My lord, we will not.
Is thought-sick at the act.
King. Dead.
Nature is fine in love, and where 'tis fine,
He answers:
To reason most absurd, whose common theme
Believe so much in him, that he is young,
Go, bid the soldiers shoot.
Ham. [aside] Nay then, I have an eye of you.- If you love me, hold
Pray you be round with him.
King. Thanks, dear my lord.
And for your part, Ophelia, I do wish
Laer. None but his enemies.
You mainly were stirr'd up.
Sailor. God bless you, sir.
The tedious day with sleep.
insert in't, could you not?
i' th' university, you say?
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken
Free me so far in your most generous thoughts
If thou didst ever thy dear father love-
Let shame say what it will. When these are gone,
More honour'd in the breach than the observance.
They bear the mandate; they must sweep my way
A ranker rate, should it be sold in fee.
Have by the very cunning of the scene
I could a tale unfold whose lightest word
Lest with this piteous action you convert
With this regard their currents turn awry
Queen. Nor earth to me give food, nor heaven light,
I could not but by her. The other motive
Have of your audience been most free and bounteous.
Oft breaking down the pales and forts of reason,
And hit the woundless air.- O, come away!
The cannons to the heavens, the heaven to earth,
Ham. O that this too too solid flesh would melt,
To give the world assurance of a man.
nowhere but in's own house. Farewell.
Resembles that it was. What it should be,
To punish me with this, and this with me,
This is th' imposthume of much wealth and peace,
God willing, shall not lack. Let us go in together;
If thou hast any sound, or use of voice,
I'll wipe away all trivial fond records,
If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart,
To ears of flesh and blood. List, list, O, list!
Makes vow before his uncle never more
Whether in sea or fire, in earth or air,
And with such coz'nage- is't not perfect conscience
 'One fair daughter, and no more,
So tell him, with th' occurrents, more and less,
Ham. What call you the carriages?
HAMLET.'
When churchyards yawn, and hell itself breathes out
one flesh; and so, my mother. Come, for England!
Ham. Aha! Come, some music! Come, the recorders!
That, on the view and knowing of these contents,
Which may to you, perhaps, seein much unsinew'd,
Enter the Ghost in his nightgown.
Ham. O, but she'll keep her word.
Pol. Have I, my lord? Assure you, my good liege,
Holding a weak supposal of our worth,
If you do meet Horatio and Marcellus,
That live and feed upon your Majesty.
Sport and repose lock from me day and night,
That he might not beteem the winds of heaven
Pol. Ay, springes to catch woodcocks! I do know,
Fort. This quarry cries on havoc. O proud Death,
Striking too short at Greeks. His antique sword,
When that her golden couplets are disclos'd,
 To contract- O- the time for- a- my behove,
Yea, this solidity and compound mass,
Laer. Too much of water hast thou, poor Ophelia,
Together with all forms, moods, shapes of grief,
And, England, if my love thou hold'st at aught,-
Ham. Indeed, indeed, sirs. But this troubles me.
The head and source of all your son's distemper.
Hor. A countenance more in sorrow than in anger.
Than is my deed to my most painted word.
King. Set me the stoups of wine upon that table.
Howe'er my haps, my joys were ne'er begun. Exit.
Queen. Mad as the sea and wind when both contend
Meantime we thank you for your well-took labour.
The speech, of vantage. Fare you well, my liege.
Words without thoughts never to heaven go. Exit.
Whether love lead fortune, or else fortune love.
Pol. My lord, he's going to his mother's closet.
You must translate; 'tis fit we understand them.
About her lank and all o'erteemed loins,
But let me hear from you.
And, as the world were now but to begin,
And how his audit stands, who knows save heaven?
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Elsinore. Another room in the Castle.
Pol. My lord, I will use them according to their desert.
Be buried quick with her, and so will I.
Ham. Has this fellow no feeling of his business, that he sings at
Enter King and Queen, with Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Hor. It must be shortly known to him from England
Ham. Such an act
That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him
Your bait of falsehood takes this carp of truth;
Oph. He hath, my lord, of late made many tenders
half a year. But, by'r Lady, he must build churches then; or else
Or such ambiguous giving out, to note
Ham. Be not too tame neither; but let your own discretion be your
Ham. Ay, truly; for the power of beauty will sooner transform
Osr. Look to the Queen there, ho!
Ham. Heaven make thee free of it! I follow thee.
I had not quoted him. I fear'd he did but trifle
For. Go, Captain, from me greet the Danish king.
Pol. I hear him coming. Let's withdraw, my lord.
your name be Horatio, as I am let to know it is.
Which have solicited- the rest is silence. Dies.
With fiery quickness. Therefore prepare thyself.
Like sweet bells jangled, out of tune and harsh;
That one may smile, and smile, and be a villain;
carry cannon by our sides. I would it might be hangers till then.
Pol. Well be with you, gentlemen!
equivocation will undo us. By the Lord, Horatio, this three years
Ham. Beggar that I am, I am even poor in thanks; but I thank you;
[Polonius hides behind the arras.]
Ham. So much for this, sir; now shall you see the other.
Ham. How say you then? Would heart of man once think it?
But how does it well? It does well to those that do ill. Now,
so. Three of the carriages, in faith, are very dear to fancy,
Ham. Speak the speech, I pray you, as I pronounc'd it to you,
Osr. I mean, my lord, the opposition of your person in trial.
In this distracted globe. Remember thee?
monsters you make of them. To a nunnery, go; and quickly too.
Hor. Why, what a king is this!
Ber. Have you had quiet guard?
Ham. She well instructs me.
Ham. Nay, that follows not.
Ham. Why, what should be the fear?
Rey. My lord, I did intend it.
Ham. Do you see nothing there?
Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
Ham. Then is doomsday near! But your news is not true. Let me
Ham. What, are they children? Who maintains 'em? How are they
Ros. Then is the world one.
a kind of yesty collection, which carries them through and
Hor. E'en so.
Ham. Nay, do not think I flatter;
discourse most eloquent music. Look you, these are the stops.
Ham. No, faith, not a jot; but to follow him thither with modesty
Elsinore. The platform before the Castle.
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander till he find it
pluck out the heart of my mystery; you would sound me from my
Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination.
Ham. Is not parchment made of sheepskins?
Hor. O day and night, but this is wondrous strange!
Did slay this Fortinbras; who, by a seal'd compact,
or calendar of gentry; for you shall find in him the continent of
I thought thy bride-bed to have deck'd, sweet maid,
last king Hamlet overcame Fortinbras.
Oph. My honour'd lord, you know right well you did,
Ham. What's the matter now?
Mar. Thus twice before, and jump at this dead hour,
Hor. The same, my lord, and your poor servant ever.
Hor. In what particular thought to work I know not;
beck than I have thoughts to put them in, imagination to give
memory, and yet but yaw neither in respect of his quick sail.
Can serve my turn? 'Forgive me my foul murther'?
Ham. No, good mother. Here's metal more attractive.
seems harsh and unwilling awhile, but in the end accepts
with you in this garb, lest my extent to the players (which I
calumny. Get thee to a nunnery. Go, farewell. Or if thou wilt
them) that many wearing rapiers are afraid of goosequills and
Ham. To what base uses we may return, Horatio! Why may not
this special observance, that you o'erstep not the modesty of
sir, an eyrie of children, little eyases, that cry out on the top
Ham. It is not very strange; for my uncle is King of Denmark, and
Your skill shall, like a star i' th' darkest night,
trippingly on the tongue. But if you mouth it, as many of our
Ham. O Jephthah, judge of Israel, what a treasure hadst thou!
Ham. O God!
Ham. No, nor mine now. [To Polonius] My lord, you play'd once
Lord, we know what we are, but know not what we may be. God be at
Ham. Come for the third, Laertes! You but dally.
Hor. Peace! Who comes here?
leaves him. The Queen returns, finds the King dead, and makes
wantonness your ignorance. Go to, I'll no more on't! it hath made
rapiers and poniards, with their assigns, as girdle, hangers, and
well.- Welcome, good friends.- O, my old friend? Why, thy face is
Ham. How absolute the knave is! We must speak by the card, or
whose end, both at the first and now, was and is, to hold, as
letters for him. Ere we were two days old at sea, a pirate of
seems to me a sterile promontory; this most excellent canopy, the
show, he'll not shame to tell you what it means.
King. Who shall stay you?
Ros. Nay, their endeavour keeps in the wonted pace; but there is,
Ham. Good madam!
Ham. Buzz, buzz!
Hor. That can I.
Ham. I pray you.
King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with us
much approve me. Well, sir?
Fran. Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself.
kissing carrion- Have you a daughter?
My thoughts be bloody, or be nothing worth!Exit.
King. I do believe you think what now you speak;
King. Love? his affections do not that way tend;
how the wheel becomes it! It is the false steward, that stole his
Of life, of crown, of queen, at once dispatch'd;
Where thrift may follow fawning. Dost thou hear?
uncurrent gold, be not crack'd within the ring.- Masters, you are
What, have you given him any hard words of late?
Queen. Alas, sweet lady, what imports this song?
Of these dilated articles allow.[Gives a paper.]
I chiefly lov'd. 'Twas AEneas' tale to Dido, and thereabout of it
Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten. A certain
continual practice. I shall win at the odds. But thou wouldst not
prais'd my Lord Such-a-one's horse when he meant to beg it- might
As thus, 'I know his father and his friends,
At gaming, swearing, or about some act
But if you hold it fit, after the play
But mere implorators of unholy suits,
Could force his soul so to his own conceit
I should have fatted all the region kites
If you have hitherto conceal'd this sight,
If she unmask her beauty to the moon.
In general synod take away her power;
But sure the bravery of his grief did put me
Let come what comes; only I'll be reveng'd
It shows a will most incorrect to heaven,
How does your honour for this many a day?
Ham. Let me see. [Takes the skull.] Alas, poor Yorick! I knew him,
In which the majesty of buried Denmark
To flaming youth let virtue be as wax
Mother, good night.- Indeed, this counsellor
Shall in the general censure take corruption
But I do prophesy th' election lights
Before You visit him, to make inquire
No more; and by a sleep to say we end
If you oppos'd them. Sir, this report of his
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
The head is not more native to the heart,
When I had seen this hot love on the wing
Enter Queen and Polonius.
But with a crafty madness keeps aloof
For this effect defective comes by cause.
Holds such an enmity with blood of man
Now fear I this will give it start again;
Yet so far hath discretion fought with nature
Hor. Indeed? I heard it not. It then draws near the season
comes in again, seem to condole with her. The dead body is
Do not itself unkennel in one speech,
But pardon't, as you are a gentleman.
Hor. O, my dear lord!
Hor. No, by no means!
Hor. Do not, my lord!
But if't be he I mean, he's very wild
But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
Did nothing.
For England.
He smote the sledded Polacks on the ice.
For what advancement may I hope from thee,
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, and Marcellus.
you i' th' earth three-and-twenty years.
Ham. Nothing.
Ham. Murther?
Ham. Ecstasy?
Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcome to Elsinore. Your hands, come! Th'
I am sorry that with better heed and judgment
If circumstances lead me, I will find
I prithee, when thou seest that act afoot,
I'll do't. Dost thou come here to whine?
His nephew's levies; which to him appear'd
King. There's matter in these sighs. These profound heaves
In the rank sweat of an enseamed bed,
To England send him; or confine him where
Ham. I will prophesy he comes to tell me of the players. Mark it.-
Other. Nay, but hear you, Goodman Delver!
Ber. Sit down awhile,
1. Play. Ay, my lord.
But wilt thou bear me how I did proceed?
But if the gods themselves did see her then,
Colleagued with this dream of his advantage,
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
Ham. That is Laertes,
Ham. As woman's love.
Ham. Or like a whale.
Eyes without feeling, feeling without sight,
His further gait herein, in that the levies,
I cannot live to hear the news from England,
 'The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose sable arms,
Depriv'd thee of! Hold off the earth awhile,
1. Play. Ay, my lord.
Hor. Most constantly.
Ham. You are welcome.
Here's to thy health.
Both. Longer, longer.
But you'll be secret?
How now, sweet queen?
Ham. What woman then?
Blasted with ecstasy. O, woe is me
Dramatis Personae
Becomes the field but here shows much amiss.
Craves the conveyance of a promis'd march
Each small annexment, petty consequence,
Even for an eggshell. Rightly to be great
Being nature's livery, or fortune's star,
Armed at point exactly, cap-a-pe,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
And I'll be plac'd so please you, in the ear
Enter Ghost.
Clown. 'A was the first that ever bore arms.
Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds.
Devoutly to be wish'd. To die- to sleep.
Each toy seems Prologue to some great amiss.
Fall ten times treble on that cursed head
Here was a gentleman of Normandy.
Her mood will needs be pitied.
Ham. I will.
Pull'd the poor wretch from her melodious lay
Hor. A truant disposition, good my lord.
Ham. I lov'd Ophelia. Forty thousand brothers
Elsinore. The Castle. Another part of the fortifications.
Both. My lord, from head to foot.
His silence will sit drooping.
Is not this something more than fantasy?
Had left the flushing in her galled eyes,
Hor. Two nights together had these gentlemen
In equal scale weighing delight and dole,
Here is your husband, like a mildew'd ear
Her maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Itself to motion, like as it would speak;
It sends some precious instance of itself
If, once a widow, ever I be wife!
Laer. My will, not all the world!
Pol. God b' wi' ye, fare ye well!
To exploit now ripe in my device,
Osr. I know you are not ignorant-
To offer it the show of violence;
Which is the mightier. In his lawless fit
Hor. I did very well note him.
Capt. They are of Norway, sir.
Ham. How is it with you, lady?
Ham. Nor did you nothing hear?
Enter Polonius, Voltemand, and Cornelius.
grieve; the censure of the which one must in your allowance
Ham. Ay, lady, it was my word.
Fear it, Ophelia, fear it, my dear sister,
Hor. Do, if it will not stand.
I your commission will forthwith dispatch,
Ham. Why he more than another?
Queen. No, nothing but ourselves.
Queen. O me, what hast thou done?
Ham. And fix'd his eyes upon you?
Hor. O, yes, my lord! He wore his beaver up.
Getrude, Queen of Denmark, mother to Hamlet.
Hor. A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye.
He tells me, my dear Gertrude, he hath found
Hath given me this. Now gather, and surmise.
Hor. Indeed, my lord, it followed hard upon.
Hor. My lord, I think I saw him yesternight.
Your visitation shall receive such thanks
It is an honest ghost, that let me tell you.
These words like daggers enter in mine ears.
As we have warranty. Her death was doubtful;
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice;
He may approve our eyes and speak to it.
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soul,
That guilty creatures, sitting at a play,
This gentle and unforc'd accord of Hamlet
That, on the supervise, no leisure bated,
That, laps'd in time and passion, lets go by
Pol. Hath there been such a time- I would fain know that-
Imperious Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Pol. Away, I do beseech you, both away
Receives rebuke from Norway, and, in fine,
Both. Arm'd, my lord.
Thus conscience does make cowards of us all,
Buys out the law; but 'tis not so above.
Had it th' ability of life to thank you.
That I shall live and tell him to his teeth,
Before my daughter told me), what might you,
reputation and profit, was better both ways.
Clown. Ay, marry, is't- crowner's quest law.
The potent poison quite o'ercrows my spirit.
But not express'd in fancy; rich, not gaudy;
A noise within: 'Let her come in.'
Ber. I think it be no other but e'en so.
My thoughts and wishes bend again toward France
more than their even-Christen. Come, my spade! There is no
life,
mine.
mind.
Folded the writ up in the form of th' other,
Ham. I shall in all my best obey you, madam.
Ungart'red, and down-gyved to his ankle;
all welcome. We'll e'en to't like French falconers, fly at
on't.
they?
Ham. I dare not drink yet, madam; by-and-by.
It is 'Adieu, adieu! Remember me.'
neck. He lays him down upon a bank of flowers. She, seeing
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Therefore, since brevity is the soul of wit,
Giving more light than heat, extinct in both
He swore had neither motion, guard, nor eye,
Laertes, son to Polonius.
'He that thou knowest thine, HAMLET.'
But I am very sorry, good Horatio,
My pulse as yours doth temperately keep time
Or but a sickly part of one true sense
Ros. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Then weigh what loss your honour may sustain
Where late the diadem stood, and for a robe,
Who calls me villain? breaks my pate across?
Or thinking by our late dear brother's death
By the o'ergrowth of some complexion,
But I have that within which passeth show-
Meet what I would have well, and it destroy,
Let all the battlements their ordnance fire;
Plucks off my beard and blows it in my face?
Comes armed through our watch, so like the King
Oph. You are as good as a chorus, my lord.
King. Pretty Ophelia!
King. It falls right.
A sword unbated, and, in a pass of practice,
Exeunt all but Hamlet and Horatio.
If it be made of penetrable stuff;
Ghost. Do not forget. This visitation
Or that the Everlasting had not fix'd
Or ever I had seen that day, Horatio!
So crimeful and so capital in nature,
The trumpet to the cannoneer without,
That I essentially am not in madness,
That you do bend your eye on vacancy,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
The treacherous instrument is in thy hand,
That has no relish of salvation in't-
would perhaps trouble a woman.
On Fortinbras. He has my dying voice.
Yet here she is allow'd her virgin crants,
But I am pigeon-liver'd and lack gall
Since love our hearts, and Hymen did our hands,
Prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell,
He never gave commandment for their death.
Hor. I saw him once. He was a goodly king.
In neither aught, or in extremity.
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.
Queen. Sweets to the sweet! Farewell.
New lighted on a heaven-kissing hill:
Sith you have heard, and with a knowing ear,
So excellent a king, that was to this
That spirit upon whose weal depends and rests
My stern effects. Then what I have to do
She married. O, most wicked speed, to post
The memory be green, and that it us befitted
Oph. 'Tis in my memory lock'd,
With all the strength and armour of the mind
The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay,
THE TRAGEDY OF HAMLET, PRINCE OF DENMARK
This unprevailing woe, and think of us
With, hoo! such bugs and goblins in my life-
The cat will mew, and dog will have his day.
Hyperion's curls; the front of Jove himself;
My fault is past. But, O, what form of prayer
Fran. For this relief much thanks. 'Tis bitter cold,
Hamlet the Dane.[Leaps in after Laertes.
Their own enactures with themselves destroy.
Of impious stubbornness. 'Tis unmanly grief;
Hor. [aside to Hamlet] No, my good lord.
The present death of Hamlet. Do it, England;
Young men will do't if they come to't
That thus hath cozen'd you at hoodman-blind?
That monster, custom, who all sense doth eat
Mar. And liegemen to the Dane.
Ophelia, daughter to Polonius.
Ham. Excellent well. You are a fishmonger.
Of unimproved mettle hot and full,
Or if thou hast uphoarded in thy life
Pol. I have, my lord.
Rey. I will, my lord.
Rey. My lord, I have.
Pol. Honest, my lord?
Of carnal, bloody and unnatural acts;
Richer than that which four successive kings
So lust, though to a radiant angel link'd,
The bold winds speechless, and the orb below
The leperous distilment; whose effect
Videlicet, a brothel, or so forth.
Ham. Nay, I know not. Is it the King?
The very cause of Hamlet's lunacy.
Pol. Wherefore should you do this?
Such was the very armour he had on
Making night hideous, and we fools of nature
These hands are not more like.
Well may it sort that this portentous figure
Pol. 'And in part him, but,' you may say, 'not well.
Capt. God b' wi' you, sir. [Exit.]
King. Not that I think you did not love your father;
Should patch a wall t' expel the winter's flaw!
At least I am sure it may be so in Denmark.[Writes.]
That suck'd the honey of his music vows,
Ham. Who, I?
Oph. I think nothing, my lord.
The serpent that did sting thy father's life
Ros. We think not so, my lord.
Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
Oph. What means this, my lord?
What might be toward, that this sweaty haste
But, sir, such wanton, wild, and usual slips
This bodiless creation ecstasy
They shall go far with little.
To his unmast'red importunity.
King. How do you, pretty lady?
Whose whisper o'er the world's diameter,
So hallow'd and so gracious is the time.
Clown. Faith, e'en with losing his wits.
To all that fortune, death, and danger dare,
That I distrust you. Yet, though I distrust,
The counterfeit presentment of two brothers.
To lack discretion. Come, go we to the King.
Of thinking too precisely on th' event,-
Popp'd in between th' election and my hopes;
Such dear concernings hide? Who would do so?
The drink, the drink! I am poison'd. [Dies.]
Osr. I commend my duty to your lordship.
Doth rend the region; so, after Pyrrhus' pause,
Ros. Ho, Guildenstern! Bring in my lord.
That thou, dead corse, again in complete steel,
Even while men's minds are wild, lest more mischance
Why does the drum come hither?
chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thick, to this
Oph. No, my good lord; but, as you did command,
Takes prisoner Pyrrhus' ear. For lo! his sword,
have grey beards; that their faces are wrinkled; their eyes
The form of plausive manners, that these men
Up, sword, and know thou a more horrid hent.
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out arrests
Cor., Volt. In that, and all things, will we show our duty.
Ham. Never to speak of this that you have seen.
On Mars's armour, forg'd for proof eterne,
That cannot be; since I am still possess'd
Your party in converse, him you would sound,
Here, as before, never, so help you mercy,
Guil. Happy in that we are not over-happy.
Give, me superfluous death.A noise within.
The rivals of my watch, bid them make haste.
If one could match you. The scrimers of their nation
On Fortune's cap we are not the very button.
T' assume a pleasing shape; yea, and perhaps
Weigh what convenience both of time and means
Whom I will trust as I will adders fang'd,
Whiles rank corruption, mining all within,
Ros. [to Polonius] God save you, sir!
Whose motive in this case should stir me most
As e'er my conversation cop'd withal.
Ros. Ay, my lord. They stay upon your patience.
Guil. What should we say, my lord?
King. What dost thou mean by this?
Within his truncheon's length; whilst they distill'd
We go to gain a little patch of ground
But better look'd into, he truly found
by them, in his meed he's unfellowed.
Go seek him out; speak fair, and bring the body
With variable objects, shall expel
Well ratified by law and heraldry,
With all my imperfections on my head.
Laer. It well appears. But tell me
died. They say he made a good end.
That's not my meaning. But breathe his faults so quaintly
King. Will you know them then?
That, open'd, lies within our remedy.
Ros. Madam, it so fell out that certain players
Hor. How was this seal'd?
King. Well, we shall sift him.
There is no shuffling; there the action lies
Laer. Come, my lord.They play.
This heavy-headed revel east and west
Whose violent property fordoes itself
King. O, speak of that! That do I long to hear.
Pol. By th' mass, and 'tis like a camel indeed.
King. O, yet defend me, friends! I am but hurt.
My virtue or my plague, be it either which,-
Laer. My necessaries are embark'd. Farewell.
if your lordship would vouchsafe the answer.
Sprinkle cool patience! Whereon do you look?
Unto young Hamlet; for, upon my life,
We shall express our duty in his eye;
[The King puts Laertes' hand into Hamlet's.]
The portraiture of his. I'll court his favours.
His greatness weigh'd, his will is not his own;
More than his father's death, that thus hath put him
Shards, flints, and pebbles should be thrown on her.
shoes, get me a fellowship in a cry of players, sir?
Mar. Nor I, my lord- in faith.
Laer. This is too heavy; let me see another.
Pinch wanton on your cheek; call you his mouse;
Virtue itself scopes not calumnious strokes.
Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled
Whose worth, if praises may go back again,
That I have utt'red. Bring me to the test,
Ham. I am sorry they offend you, heartily;
Ham. Very like, very like. Stay'd it long?
Upon whose influence Neptune's empire stands
With this affair along. For all, our thanks.
change rapiers, [and Hamlet wounds Laertes].
[Sings] For bonny sweet Robin is all my joy.
We heard it all.- My lord, do as you please;
Leave wringing of your hinds. Peace! sit you down
Ham. (within) Mother, mother, mother!
Ham. But soft! What noise? Who calls on Hamlet? O, here they come.
Yet have I in me something dangerous,
Queen. He's fat, and scant of breath.
[Sits down at Ophelia's feet.]
I had my father's signet in my purse,
argal, she drown'd herself wittingly.
Lords Attendant.
But I will delve one yard below their mines
Bears such an emphasis? whose phrase of sorrow
Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not with the body.
Ham. Then will I come to my mother by-and-by.- They fool me to the
Between the pass and fell incensed points
I have taken note of it, the age is grown so picked that the toe
 [The Attendants part them, and they come out of the
Other. Marry, now I can tell!
Ham. Sir, I lack advancement.
Elsinore. hall in the Castle.
My head should be struck off.
Oph. I was the more deceived.
Nay, come, let's go together.
How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Mar. Is it not like the King?
Both here and hence pursue me lasting strife,
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Be something scanter of your maiden presence.
Calls virtue hypocrite; takes off the rose
Enter King, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern.
Ham. That skull had a tongue in it, and could sing once. How the
Clown. 'Twill not he seen in him there. There the men are as mad as
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding throat
Ere yet the salt of most unrighteous tears
Hor. So Guildenstern and Rosencrantz go to't.
Get from him why he puts on this confusion,
Ham. If it assume my noble father's person,
Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man.
Must I remember? Why, she would hang on him
King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood
From fashion of himself. What think you on't?
My stronger guilt defeats my strong intent,
No jocund health that Denmark drinks to-day
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassadors, with Drum,
But soft! behold! Lo, where it comes again!
Of his own just remove; the people muddied,
Queen. I doubt it is no other but the main,
Singeing his pate against the burning zone,
That treason can but peep to what it would,
The wind sits in the shoulder of your sail,
The sun no sooner shall the mountains touch
That I am guiltless of your father's death,
For out o' doors he went without their help
And in part him.' Do you mark this, Reynaldo?
(Sings) To-morrow is Saint Valentine's day,
Or given my heart a winking, mute and dumb,
There falling out at tennis'; or perchance,
The will of my most seeming-virtuous queen.
That it is proof and bulwark against sense.
Art more engag'd! Help, angels! Make assay.
The death I gave him. So again, good night.
The poor advanc'd makes friends of enemies;
To the next abstinence; the next more easy;
Ham. You cannot, sir, take from me anything that I will more
Of accidental judgments, casual slaughters;
To keep my name ungor'd. But till that time
There on the pendant boughs her coronet weeds
Clown. A pestilence on him for a mad rogue! 'A pour'd a flagon of
Convert his gives to graces; so that my arrows,
The King shall drink to Hamlet's better breath,
Ham. Is this a prologue, or the posy of a ring?
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
Ham. There's neer a villain dwelling in all Denmark
'Gainst Fortune's state would treason have pronounc'd.
Ham. It was a brute part of him to kill so capital a calf there. Be
May one be pardon'd and retain th' offence?
Th' important acting of your dread command?
Queen. I'll warrant you; fear me not. Withdraw; I hear him coming.
The glass of fashion and the mould of form,
To pay ourselves what to ourselves is debt.
That from a shelf the precious diadem stole
That Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are dead.
Dear maid, kind sister, sweet Ophelia!
Osr. Sweet lord, if your lordship were at leisure, I should impart
'Laertes shall be king! Laertes king!'
But that I know love is begun by time,
But, like the owner of a foul disease,
But, howsoever thou pursuest this act,
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy,
Excitements of my reason and my blood,
But fill unshaken when they mellow be.
But what we do determine oft we break.
The youth you breathe of guilty, be assur'd
Enter Hamlet and three of the Players.
But to confront the visage of offence?
Too oft before their buttons be disclos'd,
Ham. 'By-and-by' is easily said.- Leave me, friends.
But bear me stiffly up. Remember thee?
 [Hamlet moves him to put on his hat.]
The crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian burial.
Shall you my son. You have me, have you not
Clown. Give me leave. Here lies the water; good. Here stands the
In hugger-mugger to inter him; Poor Ophelia
Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune
That it went hand in hand even with the vow
That it might please you to give quiet pass
Roughly awake, I here proclaim was madness.
Than your particular demands will touch it.
Extorted treasure in the womb of earth
say-
end.
not.
Behind the arras hearing something stir,
Ham. O, reform it altogether! And let those that play your clowns
Ham. My lord, I have news to tell you. When Roscius was an actor in
Ham. They are sheep and calves which seek out assurance in that. I
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or I could make a prologue to my brains,
Pol. Come, sirs.
In further evil?
His fell to Hamlet. Now, sir, young Fortinbras,
Oph. Where is the beauteous Majesty of Denmark?
Ham. Sir, I will walk here in the hall. If it please his Majesty,
Osr. Of Laertes?
Osr. Exceedingly, my lord; it is very sultry, as 'twere- I cannot
Thrown out his angle for my Proper life,
That rots itself in ease on Lethe wharf,
It spills itself in fearing to be spilt.
Like quills upon the fretful porpentine.
Might stop a hole to keep the wind away.
Time qualifies the spark and fire of it.
Thus it remains, and the remainder thus.
And nothing is at a like goodness still;
Bear Hamlet like a soldier to the stage;
How all occasions do inform against me
Ham. Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
Having ever seen in the prenominate crimes
Is there not rain enough in the sweet heavens
Or (not to crack the wind of the poor phrase,
Osr. It is indifferent cold, my lord, indeed.
Rich gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind.
Such love must needs be treason in my breast.
Oph. Well, God dild you! They say the owl was a baker's daughter.
Ham. Haste me to know't, that I, with wings as swift
That swift as quicksilverr it courses through
That she should lock herself from his resort,
That not your trespass but my madness speaks.
Ham. Why, right! You are in the right!
For the apparel oft proclaims the man,
Ham. It would cost you a groaning to take off my edge.
Her father and myself (lawful espials)
Ham. Your loves, as mine to you. Farewell.
In thee there is not half an hour of life.
Her brother is in secret come from France;
I, his sole son, do this same villain send
Hamlet in madness hath Polonius slain,
Into the madness wherein now he raves,
If there be any good thing to be done,
It shall as level to your judgment pierce
It warms the very sickness in my heart
Is not to stir without great argument,
In going back to school in Wittenberg,
Clown. Cudgel thy brains no more about it, for your dull ass will
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose!
That they are not a pipe for Fortune's finger
Hor. Stay! Speak, speak! I charge thee speak!
Oph. There's fennel for you, and columbines. There's rue for you,
Ham. Do you not come your tardy son to chide,
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place,
That you know aught of me- this is not to do,
In my heart's core, ay, in my heart of heart,
Of those effects for which I did the murther-
None wed the second but who killed the first.
They are not near my conscience; their defeat
His liberty is full of threats to all-
Hor. It is a nipping and an eager air.
It waves you to a more removed ground.
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
I do beseech you give him leave to go.
Ham. I must to England; you know that?
In the dead vast and middle of the night
Let it be tenable in your silence still;
Make you to ravel all this matter out,
Nor the dejected havior of the visage,
No noble rite nor formal ostentation,-
Or by pronouncing of some doubtful phrase,
No, nor the fruitful river in the eye,
O'er which his melancholy sits on brood;
Set your entreatments at a higher rate
The canker galls the infants of the spring
The instant burst of clamour that she made
To be forestalled ere we come to fall,
The ratifiers and props of every word,
She turns to favour and to prettiness.
The terms of our estate may not endure
She's so conjunctive to my life and soul
Pol. You know sometimes he walks four hours together
Ham. Then are our beggars bodies, and our monarchs and outstretch'd
Osr. I mean, sir, for his weapon; but in the imputation laid on him
I lov'd you ever. But it is no matter.
No more to undertake it, I will work him
Pol. My lord, I have news to tell you.
The woman will be out. Adieu, my lord.
Ros. Happily he's the second time come to them; for they say an old
If't be th' affliction of his love, or no,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it.
Oph. My lord?
That blurs the grace and blush of modesty;
Pol. I did enact Julius Caesar; I was kill'd i' th' Capitol; Brutus
Grief joys, joy grieves, on slender accident.
A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one part wisdom
Ham. Do you think I meant country matters?
Oph. Will he tell us what this show meant?
Mar. Holla, Bernardo!
Ham. As th'art a man,
Is apoplex'd; for madness would not err,
Ros. Faith, there has been much to do on both sides; and the nation
If damned custom have not braz'd it so
So mortal that, but dip a knife in it,
For in that sleep of death what dreams may come
Say, Voltemand, what from our brother Norway?
Hor. 'Twere good she were spoken with; for she may strew
Queen. To draw apart the body he hath kill'd;
Osr. You are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is-
That might your nature, honour, and exception
Ham. Come, come, and sit you down. You shall not budge I
Ham. Aha boy, say'st thou so? Art thou there, truepenny?
this, give these fellows some means to the King. They have
Ros. Even those you were wont to take such delight in, the
Laer. Why, as a woodcock to mine own springe, Osric.
Take up the bodies. Such a sight as this
Ham. I would you did, sir; yet, in faith, if you did, it would not
When we would bring him on to some confession
Ham. If thou dost marry, I'll give thee this plague for thy dowry:
When we have shuffled off this mortal coil,
He seem'd to find his way without his eyes,
He rais'd a sigh so piteous and profound
Look to't, I charge you. Come your ways.
Is not more ugly to the thing that helps it
We'll make a solemn wager on your cunnings-
Pol. My lord, the Queen would speak with you, and presently.
Upon a wretch whose natural gifts were poor
breeding but to play at loggets with 'em? Mine ache to think
the fashion, and so berattle the common stages (so they call
When the blood burns, how prodigal the soul
Fall'n on th' inventors' heads. All this can I
Ham. Marry, this is miching malhecho; it means mischief.
For, though I am not splenitive and rash,
I do receive your offer'd love like love,
No more.
Players.
Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand!
Oph. O, what a noble mind is here o'erthrown!
Ham. That if you be honest and fair, your honesty should admit no
Perpend.
Pol. [aside] Though this be madness, yet there is a method in't.-
But even then the morning cock crew loud,
Offence's gilded hand may shove by justice,
When yond same star that's westward from the pole
Will return'd shall know you are come home.
You cannot speak of reason to the Dane
And can say nothing! No, not for a king,
Ros. Tell us where 'tis, that we may take it thence
bonnet to his right use. 'Tis for the head.
Ber. I have seen nothing.
Give me one poor request.
And spur my dull revenge! What is a man,
Who, impotent and bedrid, scarcely hears
Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
full of most excellent differences, of very soft society and
little. 'Sblood, there is something in this more than natural, if
shall he suffer not thinking on, with the hobby-horse, whose
...Claudius, King of Denmark.
Ham. I embrace it freely,
Enter Hamlet and Horatio.
For such a guest is meet.
Ghost of Hamlet's Father.
Osr. Nothing neither way.
That thus he suffers for.
Thus runs the world away.
Guil. Faith, her privates we.
dare scarce come thither.
You need not tell us what Lord Hamlet said.
Ham. Go, go, you question with a wicked tongue.
Capt. The nephew to old Norway, Fortinbras.
a chough; but, as I say, spacious in the possession of dirt.
Doubt truth to be a liar;
not off.
Which he stood seiz'd of, to the conqueror;
Even on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
To give in evidence. What then? What rests?
Ham. [comes forward] What is he whose grief
sir,- it comes from th' ambassador that was bound for England- if
The story is extant, and written in very choice Italian. You
Polonius, Laertes and his sister Ophelia, [Voltemand, Cornelius,]
freely, or the blank verse shall halt fort. What players are
me mad. I say, we will have no moe marriages. Those that are
Feeds on his wonder, keep, himself in clouds,
Ham. Your wisdom should show itself more richer to signify this to
To do't. Examples gross as earth exhort me.
Will not peruse the foils; so that with ease,
Ham. Goes it against the main of Poland, sir,
Your better wisdoms, which have freely gone
King. We doubt it nothing. Heartily farewell.
Ham. No, by this bad.
demanded of a sponge, what replication should be made by the son
know if your pleasure hold to play with Laertes, or that you will
Hor. Hail to your lordship!
It waves me forth again. I'll follow it.
My news shall be the fruit to that great feast.
Where, as they had deliver'd, both in time,
Osr. I thank your lordship, it is very hot.
That shall not be my offer, not thy asking?
Pol. Marry, well bethought!
Ber. It was about to speak, when the cock crew.
Mar. Peace! break thee off! Look where it comes again!
Ham. I could interpret between you and your love, if I could see
By Cock, they are to blame.
In the most high and palmy state of Rome,
Hor. Heaven will direct it.
Ham. Ay, sir. To be honest, as this world goes, is to be one man
yet? Then there's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life
In ear and ear. O my dear Gertrude, this,
Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect,
Ham. I will watch to-night.
O'er whom his very madness, like some ore
Th' effect of what I wrote?
And here give up ourselves, in the full bent,
Wherein they say you shine, Your sun of parts
I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench,
Ham. It shall to the barber's, with your beard.- Prithee say on.
Which done, she took the fruits of my advice,
do, crawling between earth and heaven? We are arrant knaves all;
When honour's at the stake. How stand I then,
thou dost ill to say the gallows is built stronger than the
Ham. So long? Nay then, let the devil wear black, for I'll have a
Is strict in his arrest) O, I could tell you-
Fran. You come most carefully upon your hour.
Ham. [aside to Horatio] Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a
But virtue, as it never will be mov'd,
I took thee for thy better. Take thy fortune.
Do you believe his tenders, as you call them?
Cries cuckold to my father; brands the harlot
Had witchcraft in't. He grew unto his seat,
Have burst their cerements; why the sepulchre
Whose image even but now appear'd to us,
What is the issue of the business there.
Mess. Save Yourself, my lord:
My father's brother, but no more like my father
Pol. Do you know me, my lord?
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I do repent; but heaven hath pleas'd it so,
Mar. How is't, my noble lord?
King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
King. I do not fear it, I have seen you both;
You, good Cornelius, and you, Voltemand,
Though nothing sure, yet much unhappily.
When he is drunk asleep; or in his rage;
Next, Your son gone, and he most violent author
Stand dumb and speak not to him. This to me
A rhapsody of words! Heaven's face doth glow;
King. 'Tis sweet and commendable in your nature, Hamlet,
Ber. 'Tis now struck twelve. Get thee to bed, Francisco.
Exeunt [Rosencrantz and Guildenstern].
To whose huge spokes ten thousand lesser things
Nor sense to ecstacy was ne'er so thrall'd
Lord Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'd,
What does this mean, my lord?
Never to rise again. Thy mother's poison'd.
I lov'd your father, and we love ourself,
you not sent for? Is it your own inclining? Is it a free
against their own succession.
nor no matter in the phrase that might indict the author of
philosophy could find it out.
receiv'd it, and others, whose judgments in such matters cried in
    \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
Millions of acres on us, till our ground,
Mar. It faded on the crowing of the cock.
But we will ship him hence; and this vile deed
The changeling never known. Now, the next day
Th' associates tend, and everything is bent
Why this same strict and most observant watch
Yes, faith, heartily.
fay, I cannot reason.
Pol. Observe his inclination in yourself.
on, only got the tune of the time and outward habit of encounter-
Clown. I like thy wit well, in good faith. The gallows does well.
would trace him, his umbrage, nothing more.
Running it thus) you'll tender me a fool.
See what a grace was seated on this brow;
Which is not tomb enough and continent
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed;
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
Our crown, our life, and all that we call ours,
Who, dipping all his faults in their affection,
Pol. I mean, the matter that you read, my lord.
King. Why, 'tis a loving and a fair reply.
Whips out his rapier, cries 'A rat, a rat!'
With us to watch the minutes of this night,
This spirit, dumb to us, will speak to him.
promise-cramm'd. You cannot feed capons so.
Yet needfull too; for youth no less becomes
Hor. (reads the letter) 'Horatio, when thou shalt have overlook'd
him and my daughter.- My honourable lord, I will most humbly take
Oph. You must sing 'A-down a-down, and you call him a-down-a.' O,
Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was never acted;
Yea, curb and woo for leave to do him good.
into England.
Woo't drink up esill? eat a crocodile?
For murther, though it have no tongue, will speak
Pol. That did I, my lord, and was accounted a good actor.
speech of some dozen or sixteen lines which I would set down and
Ros. Where the dead body is bestow'd, my lord,
Your loneliness.- We are oft to blame in this,
Ham. Do they hold the same estimation they did when I was in the
In Mincing with his sword her husband's limbs,
will he nill he, he goes- mark you that. But if the water come to
Ham. [draws] How now? a rat? Dead for a ducat, dead!
And let him know so.
Laer. To his good friends thus wide I'll ope my arms
And a man's life is no more than to say 'one.'
For that which thou hast done,- must send thee hence
air, look you, this brave o'erhanging firmament, this majestical
Ham. I see a cherub that sees them. But come, for England!
A heart unfortified, a mind impatient,
Bestial oblivion, or some craven scruple
Fell into a sadness, then into a fast,
To quit him with this arm? And is't not to be damn'd
Till then sit still, my soul. Foul deeds will rise,
Ham. Does it not, thinks't thee, stand me now upon-
Clown. It must be se offendendo; it cannot be else. For here lies
King. I have sent to seek him and to find the body.
That hurts by easing. But to the quick o' th' ulcer!
Both countenance and excuse. Ho, Guildenstern!
hath borne me on his back a thousand tunes. And now how abhorred
I'll blessing beg of you.- For this same lord,
Mad let us grant him then. And now remains
That he should weep for her? What would he do,
Ham. It will not speak. Then will I follow it.
1. Play. 'Run barefoot up and down, threat'ning the flames
Which are not sterling. Tender yourself more dearly,
A blanket, in the alarm of fear caught up-
King. Hamlet, this deed, for thine especial safety,-
Ros. How can that be, when you have the voice of the King himself
Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell!
Ham. Ay, sir; that soaks up the King's countenance, his rewards,
bet against the Danish. Why is this all impon'd, as you call it?
[Makes a pass through the arras and] kills Polonius.
Queen. I will, my lord; I pray you pardon me.Drinks.
remember. And there is pansies, that's for thoughts.
Ros. As the indifferent children of the earth.
An anchor's cheer in prison be my scope,
That I have shot my arrow o'er the house
slow of sail, we put on a compelled valour, and in the grapple I
I dare damnation. To this point I stand,
tell you must show fairly outwards) should more appear like
As did that one; and that, in my regard,
That show of such an exercise may colour
That your good beauties be the happy cause
That youth and observation copied there,
Upon the beat and flame of thy distemper
When down her weedy trophies and herself
With juice of cursed hebona in a vial,
What to ourselves in passion we propose,
[He] sleeps.
is this quintessence of dust? Man delights not me- no, nor woman
into a toil?
them to their trial-the bubbles are out,
When in your motion you are hot and dry-
To speak of horrors- he comes before me.
Ham. No, no! They do but jest, poison in jest; no offence i' th'
Ham. My excellent good friends! How dost thou, Guildenstern? Ah,
What is the reason that you use me thus?
Mar. Thou art a scholar; speak to it, Horatio.
King. As of a man faithful and honourable.
Oph. Nay 'tis twice two months, my lord.
So levied as before, against the Polack;
They have proclaim'd their malefactions;
Now what my love is, proof hath made you know;
Hor. Have after. To what issue wail this come?
Will be some danger; which for to prevent,
With less remorse than Pyrrhus' bleeding sword
Witness this army of such mass and charge,
man; good. If the man go to this water and drown himself, it is,
first mouth'd, to be last Swallowed. When he needs what you have
to speak in thine ear will make thee dumb; yet are they much too
Both. We will, my lord. Exeunt they two.
Ham. Not this, by no means, that I bid you do:
not to come, it will be now; if it be not now, yet it will come:
be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape
we fat ourselves for maggots. Your fat king and your lean beggar
nature: for anything so overdone is from the purpose of playing,
your friend.
So fast they follow. Your sister's drown'd, Laertes.
That they do know my son, come you more nearer
Scene V.
Should have kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt
Scene V.
servants; for, to speak to you like an honest man, I am most
tenants.
That even our loves should with our fortunes change;
With arms encumb'red thus, or this head-shake,
To tell my story. [March afar off, and shot within.]
defence?
With this slave's offal. Bloody bawdy villain!
favours?
[Reads.]
Laer. To cut his throat i' th' church!
Madness in great ones must not unwatch'd go. Exeunt.
King. What, Gertrude? How does Hamlet?
Were thicker than itself with brother's blood,
With pestilent speeches of his father's death,
I made to her in marriage, and to decline
Laer. Hadst thou thy wits, and didst persuade revenge,
To mine own room again; making so bold
That, as the star moves not but in his sphere,
Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes?
That unmatch'd form and feature of blown youth
He's for a jig or a tale of bawdry, or he sleeps. Say on; come to
This presence knows,
The King is a thing-
Mar. Good now, sit down, and tell me he that knows,
sir, though I most powerfully and potently believe, yet I hold it
them shape, or time to act them in. What should such fellows as I
[To Laertes] Strengthen your patience in our last night's speech.
Ham. 'Swounds, show me what thou't do.
Pol. Upon my honour-
would give you some violets, but they wither'd all when my father
Ros. Good my lord, what is your cause of distemper? You do surely
those that would make mows at him while my father lived give
How dost thou, good lord?' This might be my Lord Such-a-one, that
Ros. Most like a gentleman.
Fran. Not a mouse stirring.
Never departed more.
Laer. Lay her i' th' earth;
Now wears his crown.
To business with the King, more than the scope
He took my father grossly, full of bread,
Ham. Nothing but to show you how a king may go a progress through
Grop'd I to find out them; had my desire,
question more in particular. What have you, my good friends,
It is our trick; nature her custom holds,
Mar. It is offended.
Oph. The King rises.
For women's fear and love holds quantity,
Ham. There's letters seal'd; and my two schoolfellows,
Pol. Farewell!
Near Elsinore.
Or not at all.
Mar. Nor I, my lord.
Pol. Not I, my lord.
This warlike volley.
Oph. No more but so?
What think you on't?
Guil. O, there has been much throwing about of brains.
Enter [priests with] a coffin [in funeral procession], King,
act hath three branches-it is to act, to do, and to perform;
King. Follow him at foot; tempt him with speed aboard.
Out of his lunacies.
Of mighty opposites.
[Grapples with him].
Voltemand, courtier.
Pol. 'Tis most true;
[Throws up a skull.]
[Exit First Player.]
[Exit Second Clown.]
Sure he that made us with such large discourse,
Ham. Follow him, friends. We'll hear a play to-morrow.
Say, why is this? wherefore? What should we do?
To hear the process. I'll warrant she'll tax him home;
reckon my groans; but that I love thee best, O most best, believe
But two months dead! Nay, not so much, not two.
affectation; but call'd it an honest method, as wholesome as
Ham. Get thee to a nunnery! Why wouldst thou be a breeder of
article, and his infusion of such dearth and rareness as, to make
Ham. Whither wilt thou lead me? Speak! I'll go no further.
within 's two hours.
Ham. That's a fair thought to lie between maids' legs.
King. Faith, I must leave thee, love, and shortly too;
I say, away!- Go on. I'll follow thee.
valanc'd since I saw thee last. Com'st' thou to' beard me in
help to hasten them?
stopping a bunghole?
[Exeunt Attendants.]
your mother's commandment; if not, your pardon and my return
Ham. Good sir, whose powers are these?
On Fortinbras; which he, in brief, obeys,
assigns, and three liberal-conceited carriages: that's the French
ancient gentlemen but gard'ners, ditchers, and grave-makers. They
Clown. (sings)
Respeaking earthly thunder. Come away.
Adieu, adieu, adieu! Remember me.Exit.
Clown. (Sings)
gentlewoman, she should have been buried out o' Christian burial.
kill'd me.
Pol. Look, whe'r he has not turn'd his colour, and has tears in's
should have count'nance in this world to drown or hang themselves
church. Argal, the gallows may do well to thee. To't again, come!
of a king?
the readiness is all. Since no man knows aught of what he leaves,
Clown. One that was a woman, sir; but, rest her soul, she's dead.
 You say right, sir; a Monday morning; twas so indeed.
So nightly toils the subject of the land,
So, uncle, there you are. Now to my word:
That we are made of stuff so flat and dull
Deliberate pause. Diseases desperate grown
Pol. Give him this money and these notes, Reynaldo.
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Queen. The instances that second marriage move
That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature
Till the foul crimes done in my days of nature
Truly deliver.
Thou know'st already.
That you have ta'en these tenders for true pay,
To sing a requiem and such rest to her
This sudden sending him away must seem
With forms to his conceit? And all for nothing!
We o'erraught on the way. Of these we told him,
Go to your rest; at night we'll feast together.
To give th' assay of arms against your Majesty.
 Why then, belike he likes it not, perdy.
Till of this flat a mountain you have made
Upon whose property and most dear life
What is't but to be nothing else but mad?
With thoughts beyond the reaches of our souls?
Ham. Am I not i' th' right, old Jephthah?
We must with all our majesty and skill
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
What feast is toward in thine eternal cell
Osr. Nay, good my lord; for mine ease, in good faith. Sir, here is
Take you, as 'twere, some distant knowledge of him;
King. I have nothing with this answer, Hamlet. These words are not
King. Go seek him there. [To Attendants.]
Were nothing but to waste night, day, and time.
To make them ranker. Forgive me this my virtue;
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'tis true 'tis pity;
That I have Positively said ''Tis so,'
To desperation turn my trust and hope,
I am dead, Horatio. Wretched queen, adieu!
Than a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
That our devices still are overthrown;
know a hawk from a handsaw.
pick'd out of ten thousand.
Guil. Believe me, I cannot.
Thin settled age his sables and his weeds,
Mar. Lord Hamlet!
To those of mine!
It did me yeoman's service. Wilt thou know
O thou vile king,
Rey. Ay, my lord,
Now, out of this-
Consent to swear.
Give him the cup.
His access to me.
That we find out the cause of this effect-
Of mine own eyes.
Than to entreaty.
Hor. Ay, my lord.
Of his behaviour.
Oph. Ay, my lord.
Some little time; so by your companies
Oph. Ay, my lord.
When second husband let me be accurst!
Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg-
Be as ourself in Denmark. Madam, come.
Come, some music!
When he th' ambitious Norway combated.
Guil. I know, no touch of it, my lord.
King. Alas, alas!
Laer. Ay my lord,
We beg your hearing patiently. [Exit.]
Oph. No, my lord.
Where it draws blood no cataplasm so rare,
Ham. So you must take your husbands.- Begin, murtherer. Pox, leave
Ham. Of him, sir.
King. Ay, Hamlet.
Ham. Between who?
Ham. For England?
Ham. Pale or red?
Winner and loser?
Was, as you know, by Fortinbras of Norway,
Last, and as such containing as all these,
We'll put the matter to the present push.-
Thus bad begins, and worse remains behind.
I stay too long. But here my father comes.
repair hither and say you are not fit.
To him from whom you brought them. Exeunt.
When in one line two crafts directly meet.
Repugnant to command. Unequal match'd,
Laer. O, fear me not!
very liberal conceit.
King. We will try it.
you nine year.
read, my lord?
That I must be their scourge and minister.
Ham. Nay come! again! The Queen falls.
Enter Horatio, Queen, and a Gentleman.
Clown. E'en that.
Clown. Mine, sir.
SCENE.- Elsinore.
[Exeunt Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.]
ere you had done.
take longer time.
they'll tell all.
your table!
King. It shall be so.
But die thy thoughts when thy first lord is dead.
Been struck so to the soul that presently
And recks not his own rede.
Oph. Could beauty, my lord, have better commerce than with honesty?
Stood challenger on mount of all the age
Hor. There's no offence, my lord.
Make choice of whom your wisest friends you will,
Speak to me.
Speak to me.
Come, I will give you way for these your letters,
I pray thee stay with us, go not to Wittenberg.
For my part, I do not lie in't, yet it is mine.
Grapple them unto thy soul with hoops of steel;
Give us the foils. Come on.
I hold my duty as I hold my soul,
King. What is the cause, Laertes,
Been thus encount'red. A figure like your father,
Capt. I will do't, my lord.
Hor. What is't, my lord? We will.
Laer. What part is that, my lord?
Ghost. Murther most foul, as in the best it is;
Had he the motive and the cue for passion
My sea-gown scarf'd about me, in the dark
Ham. Yours, yours. [Exit Osric.] He does well to commend it
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye,
Of Hamlet's transformation. So I call it,
Oph. Say you? Nay, pray You mark.
How to forget that learning; but, sir, now
Of blue Olympus.
Queen. I will not speak with her.
On plots and errors happen.
Did forfeit, with his life, all those his lands
Since yet thy cicatrice looks raw and red
'To the celestial, and my soul's idol, the most beautified
against the which he has impon'd, as I take it, six French
There's tricks i' th' world, and hems, and beats her heart;
not mend his pace with beating; and when you are ask'd this
Pol. Indeed, that is out o' th' air. [Aside] How pregnant sometimes
Ham. No, believe me, 'tis very cold; the wind is northerly.
Look thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Pol. And then, sir, does 'a this- 'a does- What was I about to say?
Th' observ'd of all observers- quite, quite down!
 With blood of fathers, mothers, daughters, sons,
Other. Will you ha' the truth an't? If this had not been a
With a bare bodkin? Who would these fardels bear,
Which now, like fruit unripe, sticks on the tree,
And from his mother's closet hath he dragg'd him.
Why day is day, night is night, and time is time.
Ham. They are coming to the play. I must be idle.
She should in ground unsanctified have lodg'd
King. Follow her close; give her good watch, I pray you.
Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought,
As 'Well, well, we know,' or 'We could, an if we would,'
King. Welcome, dear Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.
Yet I,
Priest. Her obsequies have been as far enlarg'd
Transports his poisoned shot- may miss our name
Or paddling in your neck with his damn'd fingers,
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Too slightly timber'd for so loud a wind,
The natural gates and alleys of the body,
To be commanded.
Without debatement further, more or less,
Hamlet is of the faction that is wrong'd;
The graves stood tenantless, and the sheeted dead
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To keep itself from noyance; but much more
Why you proceeded not against these feats
Would harrow up thy soul, freeze thy young blood,
We should profane the service of the dead
You are the most immediate to our throne,
You from the Polack wars, and you from England,
You do not understand yourself so clearly
Th' oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely,
Pol. You go to seek the Lord Hamlet. There he is.
Enter King, Queen, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosencrantz, Guildenstern, and Lords.
Fie upon't! foh! About, my brain! Hum, I have heard
You laying these slight sullies on my son
Sprung from neglected love.- How now, Ophelia?
Oph. You are keen, my lord, you are keen.
Who like not in their judgment, but their eyes;
Hor. Now cracks a noble heart. Good night, sweet prince,
your memory, begin at this line- let me see, let me see:
Hor. Good my lord, tell it.
Ham. On him, on him! Look you how pale he glares!
Ber. Welcome, Horatio. Welcome, good Marcellus.
That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet,
Oph. I shall obey, my lord.
Ham. I'll play this bout first; set it by awhile.
Mar. Illo, ho, ho, my lord!
Ham. Thou pray'st not well.
city? Are they so follow'd?
Mar. Something is rotten in the state of Denmark.
rawer breath
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (sings)
Oph. (Sings)
Out, out, thou strumpet Fortune! All you gods,
There was 'a gaming; there o'ertook in's rouse;
Oph. (sings)
What might you think? No, I went round to work
Would make them capable.- Do not look upon me,
Their grand commission; where I found, Horatio
What forgeries you please; marry, none so rank
[Exit Lord.]
O'ermaster't as you may. And now, good friends,
To prick and sting her. Fare thee well at once.
Osric, courtier.
Even here between the chaste unsmirched brows
Laer. How came he dead? I'll not be juggled with:
For what we know must be, and is as common
Enter Fortinbras with his Army over the stage.
Ham. O God, your only jig-maker! What should a man do but be merry?
What warlike noise is this?
Acts little of his will. Tell me, Laertes,
Make thy two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres,
King. No place indeed should murther sanctuarize;
Out of his subject; and we here dispatch
Prepare to play.
Pursued my life.
O'erbears Your offices. The rabble call him lord;
To tell us this.
So, proceed you.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Elsinore. A room in the house of Polonius.
Our indiscretion sometime serves us well
Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens
Clown. What, art a heathen? How dost thou understand the Scripture?
I hop'd thou shouldst have been my Hamlet's wife;
The hearers to collection; they aim at it,
Rough-hew them how we will-
Other. Mass, I cannot tell.
Polonius, Lord Chamberlain.
Queen. What would she have?
Ros. Why, then your ambition makes it one. 'Tis too narrow for your
Ham. He poisons him i' th' garden for's estate. His name's Gonzago.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Put your dread pleasures more into command
See you now-
The virtue of his will; but you must fear,
The safety and health of this whole state,
The cock, that is the trumpet to the morn,
That does afflict our natures. I am sorry.
Clown. To't.
My operant powers their functions leave to do.
The origin and commencement of his grief
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Ham. I prithee do not mock me, fellow student.
Exit [Polonius].
Without the which we are Pictures or mere beasts;
With all his crimes broad blown, as flush as May;
Why thy canoniz'd bones, hearsed in death,
You must not take for fire. From this time
was converted) might they not stop a beer barrel?
But, in the gross and scope of my opinion,
We would not understand what was most fit,
With tristful visage, as against the doom,
Exit [Polonius].
my leave of you.
 [March within.]
 [Exit Horatio.]
[Gives a paper.]
[Laertes falls.]
Queen. O, what a rash and bloody deed is this!
the ambitious is merely the shadow of a dream.
Ham. Mother, you have my father much offended.
Pyrrhus at Priam drives, in rage strikes wide;
[Exit the Queen. Then] Exit Hamlet, tugging in
The corse they follow did with desp'rate hand
Or pardon'd being down? Then I'll look up;
Give me the cup. Let go! By heaven, I'll ha't.
[Exit Polonius.]
Oph. My lord, he hath importun'd me with love
And, as I think, they have already order
Wherein our Saviour's birth is celebrated,
themselves to common players (as it is most like, if their means
Ham. [aside] A little more than kin, and less than kind!
Mar. Let's follow. 'Tis not fit thus to obey him.
This is but scratch'd withal. I'll touch my point
Ham. How chances it they travel? Their residence, both in
With most miraculous organ, I'll have these Players
'In her excellent white bosom, these, &c.'
[Ghost beckons.]
Guil. The Queen, your mother, in most great affliction of spirit
Absent thee from felicity awhile,
Clown. Is she to be buried in Christian burial when she wilfully
fortunes turn Turk with me-with two Provincial roses on my raz'd
Ham. Nay, but to live
it. Adieu.
No trophy, sword, nor hatchment o'er his bones,
'Good sir,' or so, or 'friend,' or 'gentleman'-
Ham. Not so, my lord. I am too much i' th' sun.
Mess. Sailors, my lord, they say; I saw them not.
Mar. O, farewell, honest soldier.
I must be cruel, only to be kind;
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Laer. Must there no more be done?
O, this is the poison of deep grief; it springs
To the inheritance of Fortinbras,
Pol. Marry, sir, here's my drift,
This is the very ecstasy of love,
Pol. This business is well ended.
To feed and clothe thee? Why should the poor be flatter'd?
Pro. For us, and for our tragedy,
King. O, for two special reasons,
Pol. What is the matter, my lord?
bad epitaph than their ill report while you live.
Queen. Alack, what noise is this?
Queen. To whom do you speak this?
Pol. Th' ambassadors from Norway, my good lord,
Laer. It is here, Hamlet. Hamlet, thou art slain;
Would quake to look on. Soft! now to my mother!
Pol. Ay, fashion you may call it. Go to, go to!
Pol. At 'closes in the consequence'- Ay, marry!
That you, at such times seeing me, never shall,
Worse than the mutinies in the bilboes. Rashly-
his kibe.- How long hast thou been a grave-maker?
are unwrung.
Ham. Let her not walk i' th' sun. Conception is a blessing, but not
Visit her face too roughly. Heaven and earth!
Even to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
If his chief good and market of his time
Might, by the sovereign power you have of us,
May fit us to our shape. If this should fall,
Not of that dye which their investments show,
Now follows, that you know, young Fortinbras,
Make Ossa like a wart! Nay, an thou'lt mouth,
Of all their conference. If she find him not,
Our sovereign process, which imports at full,
The heyday in the blood is tame, it's humble,
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Sith nor th' exterior nor the inward man
Ham. I am but mad north-north-west. When the wind is southerly I
Most lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust
Or look'd upon this love with idle sight?
Try what repentance can. What can it not?
Th' imperial jointress to this warlike state,
Now for ourself and for this time of meeting.
So far from cheer and from your former state.
Queen. Nothing at all; yet all that is I see.
Whereon the numbers cannot try the cause,
Where you may see the inmost part of you.
Which I have told thee, of my father's death.
I will requite your loves. So, fare you well.
If this did blast in proof. Soft! let me see.
 O, methought there- a- was nothing- a- meet.
Makes us traduc'd and tax'd of other nations;
Of deaths put on by cunning and forc'd cause;
With wondrous potency. Once more, good night;
Ham. Ay, marry, why was be sent into England?
King. Though yet of Hamlet our dear brother's death
Gent. She speaks much of her father; says she hears
Is the great love the general gender bear him,
Thick and and unwholesome in their thoughts and whispers
Marcellus?
King. Laertes, I must commune with your grief,
Whose wicked deed thy most ingenious sense
Which might deprive your sovereignty of reason
Queen. There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
Queen. One woe doth tread upon another's heel,
Make us again count o'er ere love be done!
Laer. Farewell, Ophelia, and remember well
Larded with many several sorts of reasons,
Moreover that we much did long to see you,
To do obsequious sorrow. But to persever
Ham. I humbly thank you; well, well, well.
I think it was to see my mother's wedding.
gentleman.'
Repent what's past; avoid what is to come;
Speak, man.
innovation.
Woo't weep? woo't fight? woo't fast? woo't tear thyself?
occasion of my sudden and more strange return.
sweet, and by very much more handsome than fine. One speech in't
Ros. She desires to speak with you in her closet ere you go to bed.
Of each new-hatch'd, unfledg'd comrade. Beware
Ophelia,'-
Scene III.
Scene III.
Scene III.
great showing. Indeed, to speak feelingly of him, he is the card
Like Niobe, all tears- why she, even she
Scene VII.
Pol. [points to his head and shoulder] Take this from this, if this
Why, this is hire and salary, not revenge!
O heart, lose not thy nature; let not ever
again.
musty.
spent.
sense.
world.
tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action; with
Ham. Make you a wholesome answer; my wit's diseas'd. But, sir, such
Neptune's salt wash and Tellus' orbed ground,
Oph. You are naught, you are naught! I'll mark the play.
These but the trappings and the suits of woe.
To give these mourning duties to your father;
The thin and wholesome blood. So did it mine;
Pol. What is't, Ophelia, he hath said to you?
Pol. [aside] How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter. Yet
Ros. He does confess he feels himself distracted,
Then trip him, that his heels may kick at heaven,
Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his favour,
Enter King, Queen, Laertes, Osric, and Lords, with other
Fie on't! ah, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden
them. Let the King have the letters I have sent, and repair thou
King. Take thy fair hour, Laertes. Time be thine,
How these things came about. So shall You hear
Queen. No, no! the drink, the drink! O my dear Hamlet!
Remorseless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain!
May give his saying deed; which is no further
To show yourself your father's son in deed
Whose spirit, with divine ambition puff'd,
clouts.
liquor.
To hear of it. They are here about the court,
T' o'ertop old Pelion or the skyish head
phrase.
father?
Let him go, Gertrude. Do not fear our person.
Was not like madness. There's something in his soul
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Ham. O, horrible! O, horrible! most horrible!
If thou art privy to thy country's fate,
Denmark?- What, my young lady and mistress? By'r Lady, your
Therefore our sometime sister, now our queen,
Ham. There's another. Why may not that be the skull of a lawyer?
Disasters in the sun; and the moist star
Pol. Ophelia, walk you here.- Gracious, so please you,
King. Give them the foils, young Osric. Cousin Hamlet,
Hor. 'Twere to consider too curiously, to consider so.
Ros. Without, my lord; guarded, to know your pleasure.
Ham. Or of a courtier, which could say 'Good morrow, sweet lord!
Start up and stand an end. O gentle son,
The very place puts toys of desperation,
The hand more instrumental to the mouth,
Ham. I would not hear your enemy say so,
That beetles o'er his base into the sea,
Of your dear father's death, is't writ in Your revenge
Other. Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a
suit of sables. O heavens! die two months ago, and not forgotten
That are so fortified against our story,
Ham. Why, let the strucken deer go weep,
Where little fears grow great, great love grows there.
or bad but thinking makes it so. To me it is a prison.
Ros. None, my lord, but that the world's grown honest.
The harlot's cheek, beautied with plast'ring art,
Laer. [aside] And yet it is almost against my conscience.
Osr. Young Fortinbras, with conquest come from Poland,
There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Revenge should have no bounds. But, good Laertes,
Oph. O my lord, my lord, I have been so affrighted!
Elsinore. A room of state in the Castle.
Fordo it own life. 'Twas of some estate.
Still am I call'd. Unhand me, gentlemen.
Devis'd a new commission; wrote it fair.
Till then in patience our proceeding be.
This to your Majesty; this to the Queen.
Laer. And so have I a noble father lost;
To heaven.
To outface me with leaping in her grave?
it is the breathing time of day with me. Let the foils be
Clown. Faith, if 'a be not rotten before 'a die (as we have many
Ham. Rest, rest, perturbed spirit! So, gentlemen,
Pol. Madam, I swear I use no art at all.
With all my love I do commend me to you;
His canon 'gainst self-slaughter! O God! God!
Will so bestow ourselves that, seeing unseen,
Clown. Why, because 'a was mad. 'A shall recover his wits there;
Whether aught to us unknown afflicts him thus
Whiles, like a puff'd and reckless libertine,
Servant. Seafaring men, sir. They say they have letters for you.
To our most valiant brother. So much for him.
Queen. Nay, then I'll set those to you that can speak.
O wretched state! O bosom black as death!
But, as we often see, against some storm,
believe none of us. Go thy ways to a nunnery. Where's your
Pol. [behind] What, ho! help, help, help!
dungeons, Denmark being one o' th' worst.
My too much changed son.- Go, some of you,
Your leave and favour to return to France;
Ros. [aside to Guildenstern] What say you?
tragical-historical, tragical-comical-historical-pastoral; scene
Stew'd in corruption, honeying and making love
Ber. How now, Horatio? You tremble and look pale.
Player. I hope we have reform'd that indifferently with us, sir.
will speak to this fellow. Whose grave's this, sirrah?
Wouldst thou not stir in this. Now, Hamlet, hear.
O, vengeance!
Other. Go to!
Ghost. Swear.
You must not put another scandal on him,
The soldiers' music and the rites of war
Rey. At 'closes in the consequence,' at 'friend or so,' and
Indeed would make one think there might be thought,
There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
Of crowflowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples,
But since he is better'd, we have therefore odds.
Ghost. Revenge his foul and most unnatural murther.
Queen. Let not thy mother lose her prayers, Hamlet.
Queen. O Hamlet, thou hast cleft my heart in twain.
Guil. Is in his retirement, marvellous distemper'd.
You told us of some suit. What is't, Laertes?
Queen. Alack,
To you alone.
Ham. Here, thou incestuous, murd'rous, damned Dane,
Laer. Thought and affliction, passion, hell itself,
Spurns enviously at straws; speaks things in doubt,
as your daughter may conceive. Friend, look to't.
As may dishonour him- take heed of that;
work; but what o' that? Your Majesty, and we that have free
Conscience and grace, to the profoundest pit!
Enter two Clowns, [with spades and pickaxes].
Will you do this? Keep close within your chamber.
I know my course. The spirit that I have seen
O shame! where is thy blush? Rebellious hell,
That's an ill phrase, a vile phrase; 'beautified' is a vile
The courtier's, scholar's, soldier's, eye, tongue, sword,
purging thick amber and plum-tree gum; and that they have a
With which she followed my poor father's body
Or 'If we list to speak,' or 'There be, an if they might,'
 'It came to pass, as most like it was.'
souls, it touches us not. Let the gall'd jade winch; our withers
Flourish. [Enter Claudius, King of Denmark, Gertrude the Queen, Hamlet,
the top of mine) an excellent play, well digested in the scenes,
(As how should it be so? how otherwise?),
Ber. In the same figure, like the King that's dead.
Ham. Nay, I know not.
Laer. Let this be so.
Speak loudly for him.
To be your Valentine.
King. Arm you, I pray you, to th', speedy voyage;
Oph. Indeed, my lord, you made me believe so.
To youth and liberty.
To both your honours.
man is twice a child.
the only men.
Speak to her, Hamlet.
the guts of a beggar.
the puppets dallying.
Ham. How came he mad?
Ham. From top to toe?
strutted and bellowed that I have thought some of Nature's
What company, at what expense; and finding
Pol. Good madam, stay awhile. I will be faithful. [Reads.]
carried away. The Poisoner wooes the Queen with gifts; she
Ham. With drink, sir?
Or for some frontier?
make you at Elsinore?
strumpet. What news ?
carpenter?
Thus was I, sleeping, by a brother's hand
might it not?
Let me not think on't! Frailty, thy name is woman!-
Ham. I'll be with you straight. Go a little before.
And what's untimely done. [So haply slander-]
be otherwise.
thirty years.
grave-making?
hither?
T' have seen what I have seen, see what I see!
Ros. To visit you, my lord; no other occasion.
With the brave beast. So far he topp'd my thought
Queen. So he does indeed.
So much from th' understanding of himself,
To cast beyond ourselves in our opinions
discourse to your beauty.
That may to thee do ease, and, race to me,
Over his kingdom. You know the rendezvous.
That so his sickness, age, and impotence
discovery, and your secrecy to the King and Queen moult no
skull, the King's jester.
And that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him
Laer. Where is my father?
That he could nothing do but wish and beg
King. Thou still hast been the father of good news.
The nights are wholesome, then no planets strike,
To wash it white as snow? Whereto serves mercy
it make the unskilful laugh, cannot but make the judicious
Will want true colour- tears perchance for blood.
crown, kisses it, pours poison in the sleeper's ears, and
Sound a flourish. [Enter Trumpets and Kettledrums. Danish
This was your husband. Look you now what follows.
Lords, ladies, Officers, Soldiers, Sailors, Messengers, Attendants.
Oph. Indeed, la, without an oath, I'll make an end on't!
Why thou art thus incens'd. Let him go, Gertrude.
it not?
Laer. I thank you. Keep the door.[Exeunt his Followers.]
This is one Lucianus, nephew to the King.
The apparition comes. I knew your father.
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar:
Queen. Thanks, Guildenstern and gentle Rosencrantz.
The undiscover'd country, from whose bourn
Take it to heart? Fie! 'tis a fault to heaven,
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
Oph. 'Tis brief, my lord.
Of him that brought them.
Two Clowns, gravediggers.
Queen. How fares my lord?
Queen. What wilt thou do? Thou wilt not murther me?
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seen of us.
history, pastoral, pastoral-comical, historical-pastoral,
Ham. Sir, my good friend- I'll change that name with you.
purpose, confess thyself-
One word more, good lady.
Welcome, my good friends.
amazement and admiration.
taste of your quality. Come, a passionate speech.
We will bestow ourselves.- [To Ophelia] Read on this book,
sequel at the heels of this mother's admiration? Impart.
he has laid a great wager on your head. Sir, this is the matter-
Ham. O wonderful son, that can so stonish a mother! But is there no
A worthy pioner! Once more remove, good friends."
Importing Denmark's health, and England's too,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect,
That I, in forgery of shapes and tricks,
if that his Majesty would aught with us,
'twere, the mirror up to nature; to show Virtue her own feature,
translate beauty into his likeness. This was sometime a paradox,
Where be his quiddits now, his quillets, his cases, his tenures,
and here's some for me. We may call it herb of grace o' Sundays.
For the demand of our neglected tribute.
This grave shall have a living monument.
Who was in life a foolish peating knave.
Hor. Ay, my lord, And of calveskins too.
Of your precedent lord; a vice of kings;
That carry but half sense. Her speech is nothing,
But our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them.
own grinning? Quite chap- fall'n? Now get you to my lady's
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i' th' working,
about the mazzard with a sexton's spade. Here's fine revolution,
to me with as much speed as thou wouldst fly death. I have words
Ham. 'Tis well. I'll have thee speak out the rest of this soon.-
